Our Mission

At McMaster, our purpose is the discovery, communication, and preservation of knowledge. In our teaching, research, and scholarship, we are committed to creativity, innovation, and excellence. We value integrity, quality, inclusiveness, and teamwork in everything we do. We inspire critical thinking, personal growth, and a passion for lifelong learning. We serve the social, cultural, and economic needs of our community and our society.

Our Vision

Impact, Ambition, and Transformation through Excellence, Inclusion, and Community: Advancing Human and Societal Health and Well-being.

The vision statement was adopted in 2021 following several months of consultations and discussions across the campus. It captures both the depth of our collective aspirations and desire for impact, as well as our commitment to inclusive excellence and serving the global community in all that we do. In referencing the current positioning statement, the vision statement links McMaster’s historical and continuing strengths and commitments with our intentions and goals for the future.

Inclusive Excellence

We aspire to embed an inclusive approach that intentionally engages and respects a diversity of peoples, perspectives, and ways of knowing, in everything we do.

Engaging Local, National, Indigenous, and Global Communities

We further develop and expand our network of longstanding and respectful partnerships with communities, partners, research collaborators, and supporters for the benefit of all.

Teaching and Learning

We further advance and support innovation in teaching and learning, within and beyond the classroom, and across disciplines and Faculties, to elevate teaching as a professional discipline, and equip our students with the knowledge and skills needed to make a transformative impact on our world.

Operational Excellence

We enable the administrative operations of the University to most effectively support the institutional vision and aspirations of our community of researchers, scholars, teachers, and learners.

Research and Scholarship

We strive to be the go-to place for world-class researchers and collaborators who share our values and commitment to working together across disciplines, sectors, and borders to develop knowledge, tackle global issues, and advance human understanding.

These priorities form the foundational elements of our plan, with each priority becoming a strategic goal with associated objectives, activities, and metrics. It is intended to be a living and evolving document and will serve as McMaster’s agenda and accountability statement for the next three years.
