START JOB DESCRIPTION



The Department of Economics at Ca’ Foscari University of Venice invites expressions of interest for a fixed-term postdoctoral position. The position is open to candidates with research interests in any field of economics. The appointment will be for three years, beginning in Fall 2026.

Candidates should demonstrate strong potential for outstanding research and teaching. Under current Italian regulations, candidates must hold a PhD by the starting date. There are no restrictions on nationality, and proficiency in Italian is not required. Ca’ Foscari University is an equal opportunity employer and aims to increase the representation of female faculty members.

Located in the historic center of Venice, the Department of Economics offers selective undergraduate, graduate, and PhD programs. Our faculty conducts high-quality research with a focus on policy-relevant topics. The Italian Ministry of University and Research recently recognized us as a “Department of Excellence” for the 2023-2027 period.

Compensation and teaching load are competitive with other European institutions. In addition, a generous UniCredit-funded salary top-up of €150,000 is available. Under current Italian tax law, individuals relocating from abroad may qualify for a substantial income tax exemption lasting from 6 to 12 years, depending on individual circumstances.

Applications should be submitted via Econ Job Market by November 30, 2025, and must include:

a. A cover letter;

b. A curriculum vitae;

c. A job market paper;

d. Up to two additional working papers or publications (optional);

e. Three letters of recommendation.

The Department Hiring Committee will conduct virtual interviews from December 15 to 18, 2025.

For further information regarding the position, please contact the Hiring Committee at recruiting.dec@unive.it


END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Our mission

Global community / innovation / inclusion

Excellence in research and education is key to address global challenges and make an impact across disciplines. We promote a comprehensive study experience: teaching is geared to research and aware of the needs of stakeholders, student life is engaging and rewarding. We attract and support a diverse and international community of people who study, teach and do research in the heart of a unique city. As an institution we are transparent and accountable, and promote an open and inclusive learning and working environment.
Strategic plan
Inclusive Ca’ Foscari
Sustainability
Excellence in research

1000+ researchers / top 10 for "Marie-Curie" / 4 Departments of excellence

We contribute to scientific progress through excellent research that addresses global challenges and has an impact across disciplines. We promote frontier research with the active application of the hard sciences and digital sciences to the centuries-old tradition rooted in the social sciences, humanities and economics. We are among the top institutions in Europe for number of Marie Curie fellowships funded by the EU, and first in Italy for European Research Council (ERC) funding. For the quality of their scientific projects, four departments have been acknowledged by MIUR (Italian Ministry of Education, Universities and Research) as "Departments of Excellence".
Departments
PNRR [ITA]
News: research
Innovative and interdisciplinary education

27 Double or joint degrees / 40+ languages / 37 Master’s programmes

We put our best human and technological resources into innovative and interdisciplinary study programmes in various fields, and we make sure they are always open to the world. The university curriculum is enriched by innovative teaching courses, activities and workshops, so as to offer an education in line with the highest European standards. We support our community in all aspects and stages of their university career. We offer welcome, orientation and career services to promote inclusion and wellbeing, and support our graduates entering the world of work. An extensive international network facilitates our participation in international education and research programmes, and we encourage foreign exchanges of all members of our community: students, faculty, and staff.
School for International Education (SIE)
International College
Ca' Foscari Challenge School
Research and education as public and social engagement

500.000+ people involved per year / 300+ events / 16 spin-offs

Ca’ Foscari organises many Public engagement activities. The aim is to enhance and promote academic research by investing in open and accessible education and in technology and knowledge transfer, and to open up to society at large, sharing activities and resources. We have established ourselves over the years as a scientific point of reference, an agent for innovation and social progress in the Venice area and in the Veneto region. We promote knowledge transfer by networking with companies and organisations, by setting up training and professional opportunities, and by organising public events.


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT



The degree programmes offered by the Department of Economics at Ca’ Foscari University of Venice are designed and updated annually to prepare our 3000 students for the changing global economic scenario. Graduates are equipped to work in the private and public sectors, as well as in institutions, international organizations, and NGOs. The Department was originally founded as a Business school in 1868, making it the second ever established in Europe after Antwerp

The Department offers Bachelor’s, Master’s, and PhD programmes taught entirely in English. It also provides internships abroad, with over 40 Erasmus+ destinations, partnerships, and Double and Joint Degrees with international universities in and outside Europe.

The Department of Economics covers a wide range of fields including economics, finance, statistics, mathematics, law, international studies, social sciences, tourism, environmental studies, and climate studies.

 Human geography and Sociology research group

The themes and questions addressed in this area of research focus on the analysis and critical interpretation of the relationships between human groups, spaces and terrestrial environments. Places and territories are considered, in a geo-historical as well as contemporary key, in the light of environmental and cultural evolutionary processes.

The sustainability of the territories is analyzed from the point of view of social, economic and environmental policies and their interdependence, with attention to international comparison and local governance processes.

In this perspective, the following sub research areas are of particular interest: tourism geography, cultural geography, landscape and environment geography, geography of food and geography of consumption.
Other research topics include welfare policies, the analysis of the social dynamics of complex systems, common goods and social innovation, and research techniques to support participatory processes.

END ECON DEPT