START JOB DESCRIPTION

The Department of Economics at the University of Warwick has a number of vacancies for Assistant Professors. We invite applications from strong candidates in any field of economics, but special consideration will be given to candidates in either Macroeconomics or Development.

Your research profile and trajectory should be outstanding and translate into producing publications of international quality. Successful candidates will also be expected to teach undergraduate and graduate students and perform other faculty duties as required by the Head of Department. Candidates should have a PhD or be close to completion.

The base salary is competitive with peer institutions. Additional benefits include a good pension scheme, relocation package, generous research allowance, and academic leave.

The Department offers the opportunity to work alongside leading scholars in a collegial, supportive environment.

Applications are welcome from candidates wishing to work full-time or part-time.

The University of Warwick is proud to embrace inclusion and cultural diversity.

Start Date for these positions will be September 2026 (however, a degree of flexibility will be afforded to successful applicants).

Please note that there is a two-stage application process as follows:

1. Apply through EconJobMarket.org. To receive full consideration, this application should be submitted by 16 November 2025 (midnight GMT). Please submit a cover letter, a CV, two research papers and three letters of reference.

2. Complete a Warwick University application form. This is a short form and should not take more than 5 minutes to complete. Please do not include research papers, your CV or academic references with this application. To access the Warwick application, please visit the University’s online recruitment system by clicking on this link: https://warwick-careers.tal.net/vx/lang-en-GB/mobile-0/appcentre-1/brand-4/user-11595/xf-96f0ebc693de/candidate/so/pm/1/pl/3/opp/3445-Assistant-Professor-Economics-x2-30212-1025/en-GB

Please make sure to complete both parts of the application process.


END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION



Warwick is one of the UK's leading universities, with an acknowledged reputation for excellence in research and teaching, for innovation, and for links with business and industry.

We’re a world-leading university with the highest academic and research standards. But we’re not letting the story end there.

That’s because we’re a place of possibility. We’re always looking for new ways to make things happen. Whether you’re a dedicated student, an innovative lecturer or an ambitious company, Warwick provides a tireless yet supportive environment in which you can make an impact.

And our students, alumni and staff are consistently making an impact - the kind that changes lives, whether close to home or on a global scale.

It’s the achievements of our people that help explain why our levels of research excellence and scholarship are recognised internationally.

It’s a prime attraction for some of the biggest names in worldwide business and industry.

It’s why we’re ranked highly in the lists of great UK and world universities.

All of this contributes to a compelling story, one that’s almost 60 years old. But who said youth should hold you back from changing the world?


Our Key Principles

We have a commitment within the Department of Economics to embed our key principles into our work and study environment. We aim to foster an environment of respect and inclusion in which all staff perform to the highest standard and students (both new and current) are able to enjoy a world-class learning experience. These principles inform our approach to taking appropriate action when our expectations are not met. They are aligned to the University of Warwick's Social Inclusion Strategy.
Respect

Everyone within our community has the right to be treated with dignity and respect, regardless of any protected characteristic
Integrity

We are guided by the principles of integrity, fostering an open and positive environment that is inclusive to all.
Accountability

We have a personal responsibility to commit to these values and hold ourselves accountable to our words and actions.
Diverse and Inclusive Community

View video transcript

We continue to build a community for staff and students where differences in culture and identity are celebrated, the difference of opinion is welcomed and respected and where prejudices and socially unacceptable behaviours of any kind are never tolerated. Behaviours that are not aligned to the Department's community values can be reported through the University Report and Support scheme. In this short video, we asked staff and students in the Department of Economics what respect means to them.
Our Expectations

    We all display professionalism in our conduct at all times.
    We understand that every role is important and contributes to our success.
    We create an inclusive working environment for work and study.
    We do not tolerate inappropriate behaviour such as sexual misconduct, verbal, online and social media abuse.
    We all build a community in which there is mutual respect and all staff and students can reach their full potential.



END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT



Our objective is to engage in innovative research that extends the frontiers of the discipline, contributing to a deeper understanding of how modern economies function, and how they can adapt to future challenges. Our research spans almost all the major sub-fields of economics.

As a Department, we are consistently ranked in the top 40 in the world, and in the top 10 in Europe, for the quality of our research output. For example, we are ranked 30th in the world and 7th in Europe in the most recent Times Higher EducationLink opens in a new window World University Rankings of Economics departments, and we are currently 36th in the world and 10th in Europe in the most recent QS University RankingsLink opens in a new window.

99 per cent of the Department's research was rated world-leading (4*) or internationally excellent (3*) in the 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF), placing the Department second in the UKLink opens in a new window. The REF is the official system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions.

Development and Economic History

Members of the Development and Economic History Research Group combine archival data, lab-in-the-field experiments, randomized controlled trials, text analysis, survey and secondary data along with theoretical tools to study issues in development and economic history. Faculty and students work in the field in South Asia, China and Africa as well as doing archival work in libraries across Europe and Asia.

Almost all faculty are members of CAGE in the economics department and some are also members of Warwick Interdisciplinary Centre for International Development (WICID). There is a regular weekly external seminar, two weekly internal workshops, and high quality research students. We also organise international conferences on campus, or in Venice.

potential co-authors:
- Sonia Bhalotra on gender
- Sharun Mukand with his work on propaganda
- Matthew Ridley on belief formation

END ECON DEPT