ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OPENING

Simon Fraser University
Department of Economics

The Department of Economics at Simon Fraser University is inviting applications for one full-time tenure-track appointment at the rank of Assistant Professor. The expected start date is on or after July 1, 2026. Preference will be given to candidates employing empirical approaches to environmental economics, health economics, industrial organization, international economics and public economics. However, strong candidates in all fields will be given serious consideration.

Qualifications

Excellence in research and teaching are the primary criteria for this position. The successful candidate must hold a PhD in Economics or a closely related field by the employment start date; however, PhD candidates with solid indication of imminent completion may be hired at the rank of Instructor and will be promoted to the rank of Assistant Professor upon completion of the PhD.

The candidate must demonstrate:

· a strong record of research productivity commensurate with their experience;

· establishment of, or potential for, a successful research program;

· potential for excellence in teaching at both the undergraduate and graduate level;

Duties

The successful candidate will be expected to contribute to the University’s research excellence through a rigorous research program. The candidate will be expected to teach courses in both the undergraduate and graduate program in areas specified above. Finally, it is expected that the successful candidate will contribute to the Department, Faculty, University and the academic community through service.

Applications must include a cover letter, CV, three confidential reference letters, evidence of teaching effectiveness, and samples of research papers. Please indicate whether you are legally eligible to work in Canada.

The Department will start reviewing applicants granted PhDs before 2025 on October 1, 2025 and will start reviewing applicants granted or to be granted PhDs in 2025 or 2026 on December 1, 2025. All applications are through www.econjobmarket.org. Email inquiries should be directed to ecchrsec@sfu.ca. The position is subject to the availability of funding.

Faculty salaries at SFU are based on the salary scales bargained between the University and the SFU Faculty Association. A reasonable estimate of the salary range for the Assistant Professor rank is $149,700 to $178,322, dependent on experience and inclusive of a market differential. PhD candidates with solid indication of imminent completion may be hired at the rank of Instructor and will be promoted to the rank of Assistant Professor upon completion of the PhD. A reasonable estimate of the salary range at the Instructor rank is $143,340 - $149,700.

All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents will be given priority. SFU is an equity employer and strongly encourages applications from all qualified individuals including women, persons with disabilities, visible minorities, Indigenous Peoples, people of all sexual orientations and gender identities, and others who may contribute to the further diversification of the University.

We acknowledge the Squamish (Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw), Musqueam (xʷməθkʷəy̓əm), Tsleil-Waututh (səlilwətaɬ), Katzie (q̓ íc̓əy̓), Kwikwetlem (kʷikʷəƛ̓əm), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples, on whose traditional territories Simon Fraser University's three campuses stand. By recognizing the Unceded Traditional Coast Salish territories, we aspire to create space for reconciliation through dialogue and decolonizing practices.

Personal information that forms part of an application is collected under the general authority of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act, applicable University Policies, and the SFUFA/SFU Collective Agreement. For further details see the full Collection Notice.