START JOB DESCRIPTION

he American University of Paris invites applications for a full-time position in the Department of Economics and Management at the rank of Assistant Professor beginning 1 August 2026

The Position: Candidates will be expected to teach undergraduate level economics courses that may include principles of macroeconomics, intermediate macroeconomics, international monetary economics, econometrics, and money, banking, and financial markets. Experience with or an interest in teaching or research in the areas of sustainable development, political economy, environmental economics, and institutional economics will be reviewed favorably in the context of our undergraduate and graduate programs. As a full-time faculty member, the candidate is required to teach six courses per academic year with twenty students per class on average and must demonstrate commitment to scholarship and high-quality teaching. The candidate must engage in curricular development and innovation, department and university service, student advising, and assessment. The candidate is expected to participate fully in faculty governance including attending faculty, department, and committee meetings in accordance with the policies and procedures stipulated in the University Faculty Manual.

Qualifications: A PhD in Economics is required at the time of the appointment. The successful candidate will have a demonstrated track record or potential for teaching excellence, service to the institution, scholarly research, and publication in the fields of macroeconomics, monetary economics, international finance, international political economy, sustainable development, environmental economics or a related area.

Applicants with experience in a liberal arts context and an interest in occasionally engaging in transdisciplinary teaching are strongly encouraged to apply. Additionally, applicants who have completed coursework toward a PhD but have not yet defended their doctoral dissertation, and who have a strong record in teaching, service, or research, may also be considered for the position.

The University is an equal opportunity employer for whom diversity is an essential source of vitality and strength and we strongly encourage women and those from other underrepresented groups to apply.

Responsibilities:

    The teaching load is six courses per academic year.

    Teaching responsibilities will primarily be focused on the department’s curriculum, while also supporting the teaching of AUP’s core curriculum.

    Developing and maintaining an active research agenda

    Professional mentorship is an important component of our work with students.

    Commitment to scholarship, excellence in teaching, and integrative learning.

    Service to the department

(contributing to curricular development and innovation, collegial behavior, advising students).

    Willingness to provide service to the university

(participation in committee work, assessment, interdisciplinary collaboration).

    Willingness to contribute to the first-year program.

    Participating in faculty governance, including attending full faculty, department, and committee meetings.

    Working in a professional and collegial manner with the university community.

    Maintaining compliance with policies and procedures in the Faculty Manual.

To apply, visit https://apply.interfolio.com/170082. (See posting for details.) 

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION



You’re looking for a place. Ideally, it would be in a city bursting at the seams with culture, art, and opportunities. You’d like a vibrant learning community, built on a strong academic foundation that would cultivate your critical thinking skills and reveal the links between diverse disciplines. Upon leaving, you’d be ready to meet the needs of a globalized world and would have access to a thriving network of extraordinary alumni in a variety of fields. You’re looking for this place. We think you’ve found it.

The American University of Paris does more than provide an American-style university education in Paris. Our global liberal arts heritage drives us to offer an academic experience that inspires over 1200 students, representing a record 110 nationalities and 65 languages, to cross cultural, national, ethnic, religious and linguistic boundaries in the AUP classroom and beyond. Our faculty of 35 nationalities uses its research and practice to fuel thought-provoking conversations in intimate and collaborative classroom settings, where you will explore different academic disciplines from a variety of perspectives. You will be given every opportunity to connect your learning to professional and real-life settings in Paris and beyond, with a global liberal arts education that will help lead you to a fulfilling career or further study around the world.

Students exploring mangroves in the wilderness of India during a cultural study trip in 2015.

As AUP student, you epitomize AUP’s commitment to a world of interdependence through your passion for change, your determination to build bridges among far-flung communities, your leadership of extracurricular organizations, and your interest in our international opportunities for scholarships, volunteering, and internships. We are committed to leveraging our extensive university relationships and resources, including our worldwide alumni network, to help our students open the doors to their futures and to succeed in today’s globalized world.

AUP’s 23,000 alumni are currently living and working in 145 countries around the globe. Their stories demonstrate the impact of an AUP education. We expect that you, like our graduates, who often pursue their work in languages and cultures not their own, will go on to a successful career or further study around the world. 
PREPARING STUDENTS TO MEET GLOBAL CHALLENGES

From AUP's historic beginning in rented classrooms of the American Church of Paris and the vow of our founder to "transcend the bounds of narrow nationalisms," to today's explicit intention to provide our independent and creative students with the academic, interpersonal and pre-professional preparation needed to confront contemporary global realities, our mission has not wavered.

Chartered in 1962, The American University of Paris is a private, independent, international university located in the heart of Paris, in the city’s historic 7th arrondissement. AUP students, faculty and staff come from all over the world. The primary language of instruction is English. The University offers both Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees through programs of study across the disciplines, rooted in the American liberal arts tradition.
AUP Mission Statement

The American University of Paris offers a student-centered, intellectually demanding, and career-enabling learning experience in a dynamic European capital. Here, curious and courageous thinkers embrace disciplinary and cultural diversity. Together, we develop creative approaches to enduring questions and contemporary global challenges. Engagement with Paris and an exceptionally international community shapes our research, learning, and campus life. 
How We Do This

The University achieves its mission by offering students programs of study that combine liberal arts inquiry with preparation for professional life. Whether pursuing majors in social or natural sciences, humanities, arts, or pre-professional and applied disciplines, students benefit from the dynamic and engaging teaching of a world-class faculty in small classroom settings. AUP students engage with a wide range of intellectual ideas and cultural perspectives in our campus community, and are offered opportunities to explore those ideas and perspectives through direct experience of Paris, the rest of France, and beyond. AUP’s integrated learning model blends classroom learning and its practical applications, preparing students to reflect and apply, to analyze and act. In these ways, an AUP education supports professional skill development and cultural fluency; the very global engagement and the capacity to negotiate difference that emerge from the distinctive diversity of AUP’s students, faculty, and staff. AUP students forge lifelong connections to one another and to the University. Upon graduation, they continue to benefit from the global network as part of the alumni community. 


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT



The Department of Economics and Management emphasizes an interdisciplinary and international context that encourages you to examine the social, the national, and the global, from the perspectives of multiple disciplines, so that you are prepared to face your future academic and professional career with a more reflective and ethical comprehension of present-day economics and management questions and challenges. Our diverse faculty has a wide range of academic and professional experience and creates compelling and rewarding classroom experiences. The Department proposes six majors, three minors and a Masters in International Management.  We also offer a joint Masters program in Strategic Brand Management with the Department of Communication, Media and Culture as well as a five-year BA/MSc.

Students selecting the International Economics major will gain the resources best-suited to a more effective understanding and analysis of the economic questions of today and tomorrow.  The Department plays an integral role in the teaching of the Philosophy, Politics, and Economics major and students are encouraged to explore diverse disciplines through double majors or minors.  This video from the American Economic Association describes where economics could take you. The International Finance major trains students to apply economics and finance theory to pragmatic problems in the for and non-profit sectors and within financial and non-financial institutions and markets, particularly for the optimal allocation of scarce financial assets, including money, loans, bonds, stocks, and currencies. Many companies now extend their reach across national and international borders and there is a constant need for effective management and problem-solving skills that can easily cross borders.  You will acquire knowledge of business concepts and their application and practice leadership skills with the International Business Administration major.

Managers increasingly need to consider a larger stakeholder picture and respond to the concerns of multiple constituencies.  Students can develop the fundamentals of managing both private and non-profit local or global organizations with the Management major.  This major is designed for flexibility and to allow you to explore other disciplines as elective courses. Students learn the basics of start-ups and small business management with the Entrepreneurship major.  This generalist management  degree is geared towards those who want to start their own business, work in a small business or a family business, or understand the best techniques for advancing innovation in any organization. Finally, you can explore the role of consumer behavior and the impact of market dynamics with the Marketing major. Students will learn how to conduct market research, brand a product, and develop marketing programs in an international context, while also investigating specific topics within marketing that appeal to your personal and professional interests.

The Department offers minors in Economics, Ecological and Environmental Economics, Entrepreneurship, Institutions and Economic Development, International Business Administration and Marketing Management.  The six minors allow students in various majors to develop knowledge and skills that complement that major. Many of our minors are specifically designed for students in other departments who are interested in adding economic and management pre-professional content to their academic program.  Students majoring within the Economics and Management Department have a choice of adding additional expertise with these minors and should discuss combinations with their academic advisor.  No matter what major or minor you choose, our varied programs will help you thrive in today’s complex and globalized environment.

Potential co-authors:
- Stephane Malo with his sociology focused research

END ECON DEPT