START JOB DESCRIPTION

American University is a student-centered research institution located in Washington, DC, with highly-ranked schools and colleges, internationally-renowned faculty, and a reputation for creating meaningful change in the world. Learn more about American University

Department: 

School of International Service

Time Type: 
Full time

FLSA Status:
Exempt

Job Description:

The Department of Environment, Development & Health invites applications for a full-time, tenure-track position at the rank of Assistant Professor beginning August 1, 2026. 

We welcome applicants whose research addresses causes of and responses to disasters. We view disasters as the serious harm to communities, economies or the environment triggered by 'natural' or human-generated hazards, such as extreme weather or industrial accidents. The ideal candidate will be skilled at analyzing the social, political and economic factors that cause disasters, such as institutions and policies, as well as poverty, inequality, and violence. We are especially interested in scholar-practitioners who view disasters through the lenses of sustainable development, gender, conflict, rights, food, natural resources, and/or environmental justice.

The ideal candidate will be an innovative social scientist with practical experience who is dedicated to teaching and mentorship. We are looking for a thought leader who can also teach practical agendas to graduate and/or undergraduate students, such as policy analysis, monitoring, evaluation & learning, disaster risk reduction, loss & damage funds, insurance programs, implementation science, gender programming, private sector engagement, and/or the application (and possible risks) of emerging technologies in disaster preparedness and response. Preference will be given to applicants whose work is theoretically informed, empirically grounded, applies mixed research methods, and is policy or practice relevant.

This search is open to applicants from any related academic discipline, using any research methods, any level of analysis, in any region of the world. Applicants focused on the United States are welcome, if their research and experience include an international or comparative perspective. The successful candidate will be enthusiastic about working in the multidisciplinary environment of the School of International Service. 

Applicants should hold a PhD or the highest equivalent degree in a social science discipline by the start date, though ABD applications will be considered.

Applications must be submitted electronically via the Workday application system. Applications should include the following:   

    A cover letter detailing your research, teaching and service record to date along with your specific interest in joining, and potential contributions to, the SIS/AU community
    Curriculum vitae
    Sample publications
    A short teaching portfolio with a statement of teaching philosophy and evidence of teaching effectiveness (e.g., teaching evaluations)
    Candidates selected to advance to the interview phase will be asked to submit contact information for three references that Workday can contact for confidential letters of recommendation. Candidates advancing to this phase will be notified later in the review process.

The successful candidate will also share a commitment to the university’s mission, vision, and values. 

Queries about the search may be sent to Professor Jonathan Fox (fox@american.edu). Queries about the online application system may be sent to SIS Faculty Affairs at sisfacultyaffairs@american.edu.

The standard course load for a tenure-track faculty is 2/2. All faculty are expected to hold office hours and participate in School and University activities and service. Salary range: $95,000 - $105,000 annually. Benefits  are competitive. Review of applications will begin on October 1, 2025 and will continue until the position is filled.

American University is a private institution within easy reach of the many centers of government, business, research, and the arts located within the nation’s capital. For more information about American University, visit www.american.edu.

American University's School of International Service (SIS) is a top-ten school of international affairs with 3,000 students, 120+ full-time faculty and more than 20,000 alumni worldwide.  SIS faculty produce transformational research and our prime location provides opportunities for collaboration with professionals in government, the private sector, and think tanks and other non-profits.

The Department of Environment, Development & Health offers graduate degree programs in International Development, Development Management, Global Environmental Policy, and Natural Resources and Sustainable Development, as well as undergraduate thematic areas in Global Inequality and Development and Environmental Sustainability and Global Health. Learn more about SIS at www.american.edu/sis   and the department at https://www.american.edu/sis/departments/environment-development-health/index.cfm

American University is an equal opportunity, affirmative action institution that operates in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The university does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex (including pregnancy), age, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, personal appearance, gender identity and expression, family responsibilities, political affiliation, source of income, veteran status, an individual’s genetic information or any other bases under federal or local laws (collectively “Protected Bases”) in its programs and activities.

American University is a tobacco and smoke free campus.

Hiring offers for this position are contingent on the successful completion of a background check.

Benefits 

AU offers a competitive benefits package including a 200% matching retirement plan, tuition benefits for full-time staff and their families, several leadership development certificates, and has been recognized by the American Heart Association as a fit-friendly worksite. Click here to learn about American University's unique benefit options.

Other Details

    Hiring offers for this position are contingent on successful completion of a background check.

    Employees in staff positions at American University must deliver their services to the university from either the District of Columbia, Maryland, or Virginia, or perform work on-site at the university.

    Please note this job announcement is not designed to cover or contain a comprehensive listing of activities, duties or responsibilities that are required of the employee for this job. Duties, responsibilities, and activities may change at any time with or without notice.

    American University is an E-Verify employer.

Current American University Employees

American University current employees must apply through their employee Workday account. If you are a current employee at American University, please log into Workday and select the Find Jobs report which will take you to our internal career listings.

Contact Us

For more information or assistance with the American University careers site, email theworkline@american.edu.

American University is an equal opportunity, affirmative action institution that operates in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The university does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex (including pregnancy), age, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, personal appearance, gender identity and expression, family responsibilities, political affiliation, source of income, veteran status, an individual’s genetic information or any other bases under federal or local laws (collectively "Protected Bases") in its programs and activities.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Mission

To advance knowledge, foster intellectual curiosity, build community, and empower lives of purpose, service, and leadership.
Vision

American University is a leading student-centered research university where passionate learners, bold leaders, engaged scholars, innovators, and active citizens unleash the power of collaborative discovery. We partner with key organizations in the Washington, DC, region, and around the globe to better the human condition, learn from a vast array of experiences and internships, create meaningful change, and address society’s current and emerging challenges.
Values

    - Integrity

    - Excellence

    - Human dignity

    - Community

    - Diversity, equity, accessibility, and inclusive excellence

    - Free inquiry and
    seeking truth

    - Impact


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

The SIS Department of Environment, Development, and Health (EDH) defends and cares for life on Earth through research, teaching, advocacy, and policy. In the face of the most urgent challenges of our time, we harness rigorous research, interdisciplinary collaboration, and community-based engagement to craft solutions and strategies for meaningful change.

Our work proceeds from three commitments: efforts to address environmental harm and the climate crisis must also consider economic inequalities, racial and gender injustices, and changing patterns of disease; ending poverty requires attention to the climate crisis, ecosystem integrity, and human health; and health problems are often driven by environmental pathologies, violence, and poverty.

If you want to dedicate your career to addressing poverty, health and technological disparities, and environmental and climate injustices — join us. 

END ECON DEPT