START JOB DESCRIPTION


Position Details

Posting Title 	Adjunct Lecturer, Graduate course
Discipline 	Econometrics
Proposed Rank 	Adjunct
Position Summary Information

Job Description Summary 	
The Economics Division seeks an adjunct faculty to teach two sections of a Graduate Course for the Master’s in Business Analytics (using R coding). It is an Econometrics course on causality methods. One course will run on Tuesdays from 9:30am-12:00pm. The other course will run on Thursday from 9:30am-12:00pm. Both sections will be taught in person in the Spring, 2026.

Candidates should have a Master’s degree in Economics, or be a Ph.D. student in Economics, and be ready to teach in an integrated, cross-disciplinary environment. Particularly welcome are candidates who can bridge the gap between theory and practice and who bring global perspective to their teaching.

Interested candidates should submit the following: a letter of interest explaining why they are seeking employment at Babson College, curriculum vitae, evidence of teaching ratings/teaching excellence and graduate transcripts (if available). Graduate transcripts must be uploaded under the “other” document category.
Additional Information 	
Babson College, located 14 miles west of Boston, is an independent school of management, acclaimed both nationally and internationally for its leadership in entrepreneurship education. While the college offers a wide range of business-related courses, it is also well known for its highly integrated, cross-disciplinary curriculum and the quality of its liberal arts courses. We seek faculty who are aligned with our values of teaching and scholarly excellence, collaboration, diversity, and inclusiveness and those who embrace our mission to educate leaders who create great economic and social value everywhere. We seek candidates who are eager to engage as educators among a diverse student community.

Babson College is an EO/AA employer committed to fostering a diverse community.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

MISSION STATEMENT

Babson College prepares and empowers entrepreneurial leaders who create, grow and steward sustainable economic and social value—everywhere.
STATEMENT OF PURPOSE

Empower learners everywhere to create lasting value for themselves, their communities and the world.
CORE VALUES
Integrity

We do the right thing. Regardless of visibility or with whom we are interacting, we take ownership of our behaviors, hold one another accountable, and practice social and ethical responsibility.
Collaboration

We work and learn across constituencies. We nurture our relationships both inside and outside of Babson to achieve better ideas and outcomes.
Inclusive Excellence

We have an ongoing commitment to fostering a community defined by respect, dignity, and shared accountability. We think and act beyond preconceived labels and advance practices that enables the flourishing of all members.
Innovation

We resiliently learn through action. We are curious and take initiative to both discover and implement ways to add value.
Excellence

We rise to the challenge. We are lifelong learners who grow intentionally to be the best.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

The Babson College economics faculty is a group of diverse researchers and dedicated educators committed to providing students with a rigorous, systematic set of analytical skills and frameworks in an interactive, hands-on learning environment.

We emphasize the applications of economics principles to real-world decision making. Our students learn to identify and create economic opportunities, make sound strategic decisions, and assess the socio-economic and environmental impacts of those decisions in a world of uncertainty. Our economics program empowers students with the economic knowledge necessary for developing an informed global view of increasingly complex interactions among governments, societies, and value-creating commerce. Students leverage economics to pursue successful careers in a wide variety of fields, such as entrepreneurship, finance, marketing, management, banking, law, and policy.

people to work with:
- Joseph Ricciardi: with his expertise in LATAM as a region

END ECON DEPT