START JOB DESCRIPTION


Description

The Bates College Economics Department invites applications for a tenure track position in applied microeconomics at the assistant professor level to begin July 1, 2026. We are especially interested in candidates using empirical causal inference methods. Candidates who can enhance the diversity of the faculty and/or who have demonstrated success working with and supporting an increasingly diverse student body are encouraged to apply.

The successful candidates will combine teaching and research in their field(s) of specialization with the expectation to regularly teach one or more core courses in our major: Principles of Economics, Intermediate Microeconomics, Statistics, and Econometrics. Additionally, candidates should demonstrate preparedness to mentor undergraduate research. The annual teaching load is 5 courses, and the new hire is eligible for a one-course release in year one and a one-semester pre-tenure leave conditional on successful reappointment.


Review of applications will begin on November 1, 2025 and will continue until the position is filled. To be seriously considered, candidates should substantively discuss in their application materials how they design their courses, develop an inclusive climate in the classroom, and in other ways support a broad range of social, cultural, and learning differences to ensure that all students thrive.

The Economics Department at Bates is a vibrant community of faculty and students committed to an economics education that is grounded in theory and empirical analysis. We believe that active engagement with research is critical to informed teaching, and evidence that we highly value research is apparent in the research track records of our faculty, our external seminar series, and our internal brown bag series. Economics is consistently one of the most popular majors at Bates, including substantial student involvement, e.g., with the organization Women in Economics @ Bates.

Bates College is a residential liberal arts college in Lewiston, Maine—a diverse and growing community roughly 45 minutes from the state’s largest city (Portland), 2 ½ hours north of Boston, and 4 ½ hours south of Montreal. Faculty scholarship and creative work at Bates are robustly supported by start-up packages, internal grants, and a well-staffed external grants office. Community-engaged learning and study abroad are both broadly encouraged and supported; pedagogical development and innovation is further buttressed by the Center for Inclusive Teaching and Learning. Educational access and racial justice are central to Bates’ history and mission and our faculty-led initiatives reflect this commitment.
Qualifications

All Ph.D. degree requirements must be completed by the date of appointment.
Application Instructions

Please submit the following materials: cover letter, curriculum vitae, graduate transcripts, a research paper, statements on diversity, teaching, and research, teaching evaluations, and three confidential letters of recommendation. Also, please describe your willingness and preparedness for teaching core courses. Employment is contingent upon successful completion of a background check and verification of degree. For more information about the college, please visit the Bates website: www.bates.edu.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Mission Statement

Since 1855, Bates College has been dedicated to the emancipating potential of the liberal arts. Bates educates the whole person through creative and rigorous scholarship in a collaborative residential community. With ardor and devotion — Amore ac Studio — we engage the transformative power of our differences, cultivating intellectual discovery and informed civic action. Preparing leaders sustained by a love of learning and a commitment to responsible stewardship of the wider world, Bates is a college for coming times.
Outlook

Since its founding in 1855, Bates College has welcomed men and women from diverse racial, ethnic, religious and economic backgrounds.

A private, highly selective, residential college devoted to undergraduate study in the liberal arts, Bates has always stood firmly for the ideals of academic rigor, intellectual curiosity, egalitarianism, social justice and freedom. Bates is recognized for its inclusive social character and progressive tradition, and is rightly celebrated as one of the first U.S. institutions of higher learning to admit women and people of color.

All activities, resources, and facilities have always been open to all members of the Bates community. Bates does not believe in — and has never allowed on campus and will never allow — organizations such as fraternities or sororities that exclude people.

Bates values the diversity of persons and perspectives, supporting this commitment through official college statements and policies.
Nondiscrimination Policy

Bates College is committed to the principle of equal opportunity and providing an educational and work environment free from discrimination. The college prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, national or ethnic origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression, age, disability, genetic information or veteran status and other legally protected statuses in the recruitment and admission of its students, in the administration of its education policies and programs, or in the recruitment of its faculty and staff.  Bates College adheres to all applicable state and federal equal opportunity laws and regulations.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

An understanding of economics can help foster intelligent citizenship. Policy makers in business, government, and the nonprofit sector frequently evaluate complex economic issues.

people to work with: 
- Samuel S. Bird with his expertise i politcal and development experimental I can further test my mechanisms of tv exposure, attitudes and behavior
- Sandra H. Goff: wth her experimental research on pro-social behavior we can explore how different cultures have differenttendencies for pro-social behavior
- Anamika Sen: with her expertise in gender economics

END ECON DEPT