START JOB DESCRIPTION

The Department of Economics and Data Analytics at Berry College invites applications for a tenure-track faculty position in Data Analytics in the Campbell School of Business, with a start date of August 2026. We seek a colleague with a vision for preparing graduates who are well-equipped for careers in data-driven decision making, predictive analytics, and business intelligence. Successful candidates will demonstrate the ability to build on the initial successes of the Data Analytics program, engage students in practical business applications, and collaborate with on-campus colleagues in related areas.

Successful candidates will have expertise in data analytics, data science, or similar fields. Our Data Analytics program draws on courses from business, economics, and computer science, and thrives on the application of research and teaching to firsthand experiences and professional preparation for students. The ideal candidate will seek to engage students in hands-on projects with industry or nonprofit partners, analyzing real-world data to solve current challenges, working across disciplines.

We seek applicants who are familiar with a spectrum of analytical tools and possess expertise in a few, such as PowerBI, R, Python, Tableau, SQL, Stata, machine learning, and the integration of artificial intelligence. We are open to a wide range of such tools, recognizing the need to effectively teach and mentor students to be proficient in the tools and techniques most relevant to a rapidly evolving analytics landscape. The successful applicant should be committed to excellence in teaching, service, publishable scholarship, and mentoring students in a residential college environment.

Requirements
Applicants should have completed a Ph.D. or other terminal degree in business analytics, data analytics, data science, economics, information systems, or a related field by the start date.
 
About Berry College
Berry is a selective independent college of 2,200 students located adjacent to Rome, GA, midway between Atlanta, GA, and Chattanooga, TN. Berry’s educational approach deliberately unites challenging academic programs with practical work experience in a residential campus community that encourages faith and emphasizes caring for the needs of others above self. Our mission and values are grounded in the ethic that our founder instilled more than a century ago:

We educate the head, heart, and hands – to inspire leaders of integrity who cultivate thriving communities. Combining academic exploration with meaningful work responsibilities in a residential setting, our approach emphasizes firsthand experiences and mentoring. We invest in the personal growth and professional preparation of talented students from varied backgrounds, with an enduring commitment to help those hindered by financial need. Guided by Christian principles, we value the dignity of individuals, the search for truth tempered with grace, and the well-being of our neighbors.

Nationally recognized for quality of learning and quality of life, Berry offers first-rate undergraduate degree programs in the sciences, humanities, arts and human sciences, as well as undergraduate and master's level opportunities in business, physician associate studies, and teacher education. The College’s stunning 27,000-acre campus affords opportunities that cannot be duplicated elsewhere. Berry’s ongoing commitment is to provide exceptional educational experiences to talented students from a wide range of social, racial, and economic backgrounds. 
  
College Commitments
Berry College is committed to recruiting and supporting a diverse faculty and staff. An Equal Opportunity Institution, Berry complies with all applicable laws and provisions prohibiting discrimination in its educational and employment policies. Berry respects the essential dignity of all individuals and accordingly hires and promotes employees without regard to matters of personal identity such as race, ethnicity, religion, gender, sexual orientation, and political affiliation. Berry College is committed to ensuring facilities, programs, services, and activities are accessible to everyone, including those seeking employment at Berry College. Inquiries about interview or workplace accommodations are welcomed and can be directed to employment@berry.edu or (706) 233-4062. 

Application Instructions
Applicants should submit a letter of application describing the candidate’s interest in this position and commitment to the Berry mission and values (linked above); a curriculum vitae; a teaching statement that should articulate the candidate’s teaching approach, experience, and goals; complete teaching evaluations (as available); a research sample; unofficial undergraduate and graduate transcripts; and names and contact information for three references.

Review of applications will begin on September 30, 2025, and will continue until the position is filled. Specific questions about the position may be sent directly to the chair of the search committee, Dr. Jamie Sharpe, at jsharpe@berry.edu. 

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Overview

Nationally recognized for academic excellence and extraordinary value, Berry is an independent, coeducational college of approximately 2,100 students. For more than a century the College has offered a comprehensive liberal arts education that balances intellectual exploration, practical learning and character development.
Heritage

Founded by Martha Berry in 1902 as the Boys Industrial School with the mission of providing educational opportunity to poor children of the rural South, Berry became a four-year coeducational college in 1926. Historically nondenominational, the College embraces such Christian principles as inclusivity and service, encourages examination of faith and values, and is welcoming and respectful to those from all religious backgrounds. Read more.
Academic Programs

Berry offers exceptional undergraduate degree programs in the sciences, humanities, arts and social sciences (42 majors and 38 minors), as well as undergraduate and masters opportunities in business and teacher education. Read more.
Guaranteed Professional Development

Through Berry's LifeWorks program, students fill more than 1,000 jobs across all of the College's 180 departments. While gaining as many as eight semesters of paid, professional development experience, they connect classroom studies to hands-on learning, gaining invaluable skills and taking ownership of their education. Read more.
A Culture of Mentorship

The people of Berry share freely of their experience and expertise, helping one another learn and develop as scholars and people of character. Taking on the best qualities of teachers, friends, coaches, staff supervisors and alumni, Berry students grow into mentors in their own right. Read more.
A Culture of Belonging

At Berry College, our Culture of Belonging is rooted in the principles of Good Neighbor Culture, which draw from Martha Berry’s vision and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s dream. Together, they inspire a community built on collaboration, respect, and inclusion. We embrace diverse perspectives, value service, and foster relationships grounded in dignity and humility, preparing students to thrive in a complex world. Read more.
The Berry Journey

The Berry education is built on an exchange. The College offers a purposeful, four-year plan that integrates mentorship, reflection and hands-on learning. In turn, students contribute their ideas and hard work to make Berry and the larger world better. Read more.
Outcomes

The Berry degree reveals its power as graduates walk across the stage with momentum and purpose (and often with jobs in hand) and reveals its full value throughout their lives. Equipped with respected degrees, a range of widely applicable skills and well-established values, they advance in their careers and lead in their communities.
The World's Largest Campus

At 27,000 acres, the Berry campus is a place of tremendous physical beauty, facilities that support unique work-based learning opportunities, countless options for outdoor recreation and ample opportunities for research. Read more.
Location

Berry is located in Northwest Georgia, 72 miles northwest of Atlanta and 75 miles south of Chattanooga.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT



END ECON DEPT