START JOB DESCRIPTION

The Department of Economics (DSE) at the University of Bologna is currently accepting applications for one fixed-term position as Assistant Professor starting in the summer of 2026. We welcome applications from any field.

The position offers a competitive compensation package, along with a research budget.

Successful candidates should publish their research in leading peer-reviewed journals and enrich the intellectual environment at the DSE. Knowledge of Italian language is not required and there are no restrictions regarding the nationality of the applicants, as DSE prioritizes diversity and inclusion within its staff. Following a successful evaluation and subject to available funding, the position may be converted to a tenure-track Assistant Professorship.

REPEC ranks the DSE among the best Economics departments worldwide, 13th in Europe, and 40th globally.

Job interviews will be held remotely at the European Job Market: December 15-18, 2025.

Application Instructions

Applications should be received by November 10th, 2025. They should include a cover letter, a CV, a research statement, one (or more) research paper(s), and three reference letters, and should be uploaded on the EconJobMarket website https://econjobmarket.org/

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

The identity, mission and vision of the Alma Mater Studiorum - Università di Bologna are founded in its community of people, in the daily commitment to society and in the projects that embody our values.
People

We believe that each person has unique potential, and we are committed to facilitating the full expression of each talent, to be open to all possibilities.

    In the mutual intertwining of teaching, research and third mission, a cohesive academic community oriented to the realisation of our founding values continues to grow.

Our broad community of students, academic and professional staff has different roles and responsibilities while sharing the same values and goals.

Respect for difference is our hallmark, and we believe that only an environment capable of cultivating different perspectives and multiple relationships can guarantee meaningful development.
Our commitment

Increasingly orienting research ideas, training effectiveness and staff professionalism to the common good.

    The University promotes the right to knowledge as a fundamental pillar for building a fairer, more charitable and stronger community.

The University of Bologna aware of its social responsibility:

    it generates value and development in collaboration with the local community through global cooperation
    it guarantees the right to knowledge by offering the possibility to pursue one's own goals
    it contributes to scientific progress and innovation, generating a tangible and relevant impact in the life of the community
    it dialogues with society to co-generate solutions for sustainable and inclusive development in research, education and third mission

What inspires us

Aware of our role in society and our history, we constantly redefine our identity to respond effectively to the complex demands of the contemporary world.

An ethical and transparent approach guides our actions.

Passion and intuition guide our constant innovation and advanced teaching methods in order to provide effective and relevant responses to people's growing needs and offering tools and skills in line with the changing needs of the contemporary world.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

lma Mater Studiorum - Università di Bologna is the oldest university in the western world and is the best public university in Italy (World University Ranking 2021 by Times Higher Education).

The Department of Economics is among the largest in Europe and it offers excellent research and teaching. Established in 1983 through the union of two pre-existing institutes, it has become a reference point for scientific debate in economics, and it currently hosts a lively community of international researchers and students.
Research

The research conducted by the DSE covers 16 different areas, with high-quality standards, and helps to understand and address fundamental issues such as poverty, inequality, development, work, climate and technological change, immigration, health, and many others.

    RePEc (Research Papers in Economics) in 2025 ranks our Department among the best Economics departments in the world, placing it at number 1 in Italy, 14th in Europe, and 41st globally.
    According to the Tilburg University Economics Ranking, our Department is the only one from an Italian public university ranked among the top 40 in Europe and among the top 120 worldwide in Economics.
    According to the QS World University Ranking in 2025, the University of Bologna is ranked 102 in the world in the field of Economics and Econometrics, making it the highest-ranked Italian public university in this discipline.

At the beginning of 2018, our Department was funded by the Italian Ministry of University and Research under the "Departments of Excellence" program for 2018-2022 and 2023-2027.

Teaching

The educational offer includes 4 three-year degree courses (Economics, markets and institutions, Economics of tourism and cities; Economics and finance, Economics, politics and social sciences), 6 two-year master's degree courses (Applied economics and markets; Economics and econometrics; Economics and public policy; Health economics and management; Resource economics and sustainable development; Tourism economics and management), 2 professional masters (Economics of cooperation; International Management), and 2 doctorates (Economics; Public Governance, Management e Policy).

Department and society

Our Department actively spreads its research findings among the civil society, orients high school students and contributes to the debate on Italian and international economic policy.

potential co-authors:
- Giorgio Bellettini with his work on gender and political economy
- Matteo Cervellati  with civil conflict which can be explained by my measures
- Alice Guerra with her social norms research

END ECON DEPT