START JOB DESCRIPTION



The Department of Economics at Boston College invites applications for one open-rank, tenure track or tenured faculty position beginning in Fall 2026. We are especially interested in candidates who can provide intellectual leadership in macroeconomics, labor economics, or industrial organization.

The selected candidate will teach in the undergraduate and Ph.D. programs in Economics, and should be committed to teaching and research of the highest quality. To apply, please submit a cover letter, curriculum vitae, and job market paper. Candidates for a tenure-track (untenured) appointment should also arrange to have three letters of recommendation sent. Applications will be considered on a rolling basis beginning immediately and will be accepted through the deadline of December 31, 2025.

The expected 9-month base salary range (paid over 12 months) for this position is $170,000-190,000 for the Assistant Professor rank, $210,00-240,000 for Associate Professor rank, and $250,000-350,000 for Full Professor Rank. The actual pay offered to the selected candidate will be determined based on factors such as, but not limited to, candidate qualifications and prior experience, scope of responsibilities, internal equity, and market considerations.

Equal Employment Opportunity Statement:

Boston College conducts pre-employment background checks as part of the hiring process.

Boston College is a Jesuit, Catholic university that strives to integrate research excellence with a foundational commitment to formative liberal arts education. The university is an equal opportunity employer. In concert with our Jesuit, Catholic mission, Boston College is dedicated to the goal of building a culturally diverse and pluralistic faculty and staff committed to teaching and working in a multicultural environment and strongly encourages applications from women, minorities, individuals with disabilities, and covered veterans.


END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION


Where We Began

Boston College was founded in 1863 by the Society of Jesus (the Jesuits) to educate Boston’s predominantly Irish, Catholic immigrant community. It opened its doors on September 5, 1864, in a building on Harrison Avenue in Boston’s South End, a “small streetcar college” for commuting students.

When it outgrew the limitations of the space, then-president Rev. Thomas I. Gasson, S.J., bought 31 acres of the former Lawrence Farm in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, and broke ground in 1909 on a new campus, today fondly known as “the Heights.”

BC began as an undergraduate liberal arts college, but as its aspirations grew, it added graduate programs and professional schools fulfilling its charter as a university.
Old Photo of Gasson Hall

Through the decades, Boston College has become an internationally respected research university and a center of academic excellence.
 
Where We Are Going

Boston College builds upon its traditions. It seeks to be the national leader in the liberal arts; to fulfill its Jesuit, Catholic mission of faith and service; to continue to develop model programs to support students in their formation; and to seek solutions—as researchers, educators, leaders, and caregivers—that directly address the world’s most urgent problems.

 
Gasson quad

    
 
Guiding Our Path

Boston College remains committed to leading its students on a comprehensive journey of discovery—one that integrates their intellectual, personal, ethical, and religious formation.

Inspiration for Boston College’s academic and societal mission is drawn from the University’s distinctive religious and intellectual heritage. As a Jesuit, Catholic University, Boston College is rooted in a world view that calls us to learn, to search for truth, and to live in service to others. To fulfill that mission, we welcome and embrace the contributions of a diverse student body from many faith traditions.


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

oston College economics faculty comprises 40 full-time positions. They allocate their time between research and teaching in undergraduate (1,300 majors) and doctoral (70 students) programs as well as participating in the wider intellectual life of the University, the Boston area and, the world.
Maloney Hall

Maloney Hall, home of the Boston College Economics Department.
Intellectual Leadership

Boston College provides considerable intellectual leadership to the economics profession. Members of the department hold 28 editorial board positions on some of the leading journals of the profession. Department members include five co-editors of journals and one NIH review panel member. Four members of the department are NBER Research Associates and one is a Faculty Research Fellow. Three members of the department are Fellows of the Econometric Society. The Boston College Economics department ranks 21st among U.S. economics departments in the December, 2022 IDEAS rankings and 28th in the December, 2022 IDEAS world rankings. Recent faculty hires include distinguished econometricians and theorists, adding to the established strength of the department in applied economics.


END ECON DEPT