START JOB DESCRIPTION

Bowdoin College’s Department Economics invites applications for two full-time tenure-track faculty appointments in economics at the Assistant Professor level, beginning July 1, 2026. The subfield is open, with a preference for candidates with expertise in macroeconomics, industrial organization, public finance, or health economics. A PhD in Economics is expected by the date of the appointment. The teaching load is two courses per semester.  Bowdoin is particularly interested in candidates dedicated to undergraduate teaching and with a promise of long-term successful research and/or creative work.
 
Bowdoin College offers opportunities for professional development, a fully funded, year-long pre-tenure sabbatical leave (after three years of teaching and successful reappointment), and regular, generously funded, post-tenure sabbaticals. Support for teaching, grant-writing, artificial intelligence initiatives, computing software, and community partnerships in courses is available. The College also offers robust programming and resources for establishing and enhancing mentoring networks. 
 
At Bowdoin, we are committed to inclusive excellence, an ongoing collective practice that honors our institutional commitment to provide an outstanding liberal arts education and serve the common good. The College is home to talented students, faculty and staff and we encourage applications from candidates committed to the inclusive instruction and support of a diverse student population, and those who will enrich and contribute to the College’s multifaceted diversity. 
 
Accessibility during the application and interview stages, as well as once employed, is a priority of the College: https://www.bowdoin.edu/accessibility/index.html. In addition, visa sponsorships for faculty hires are available.  
 
Bowdoin College accepts only electronic submissions. Please visit https://careers.bowdoin.edu to submit: 1) a cover letter; 2) a curriculum vitae; 3) a description of your research plans; 4) a statement that describes your teaching philosophy and practice, including how you create learning environments that prepare students to interact constructively with a diversity of people, spaces, situations, and ideas; and 5) the names and contact information for three references who have agreed to provide letters of recommendation. 
 
Review of applications will begin November 15, 2025 and continue until the position is filled.
 
Founded in 1794, Bowdoin has maintained its commitment to the liberal arts for well over 200 years. Bowdoin’s reputation as a preeminent liberal arts college rests on the excellence of its faculty, students, and staff; intimate size; strong sense of community; and connections to the people, history, and natural beauty of Maine. Bowdoin’s campus is situated in a beautiful natural setting. Located in Brunswick, Maine, a town of approximately 20,000, the College is a short drive from the Maine coast, twenty-five miles from Portland and 120 miles from Boston. Bowdoin College complies with applicable provisions of federal and state laws that prohibit unlawful discrimination in employment, admission, or access to its educational or extracurricular programs, activities, or facilities based on race, color, ethnicity, ancestry and national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression, age, marital status, place of birth, genetic predisposition, veteran status, or against qualified individuals with physical or mental disabilities on the basis of disability, or any other legally protected statuses. For further information about the College and our department, please visit our website:  http://www.bowdoin.edu.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Bowdoin is a college and also an idea—

—that if you give smart, kind, young people access to one of the best educations on earth, they will use it to create good in the world.
Bowdoin College is historic. And selective. And rigorous.

But most importantly, we were founded and endowed with the belief that there is something bigger than ourselves.

What does it mean for a college to do the right thing?

It means building a curriculum that stretches what’s expected of the liberal arts.

For us, it means working for equality, diversity, and inclusion—in our coursework, our staffing, our student body, and our financial priorities.

It means researching and protecting our environment—from the coastal ecosystems that surround and sustain us, to the humid jungles and Arctic poles that inspired some of our earliest students.

A Bowdoin education brings context, history, integrity, and empathy to the world around us.
Who chooses Bowdoin?

Our alumni are scholars, writers, judges, entrepreneurs, business leaders, scientists, activists, tech giants, farmers, diplomats, artists, and conservationists.

Bowdoin graduates of all years are connected by a curious, restless thread that asks: what else can I do? Where can I find answers? Who brings a different perspective?
students who choose Bowdoin
Who does Bowdoin choose?

We admit students of uncommon promise, and uncommon character. We look for bright minds who want to work together—and live together, eat together, and talk it out.

Our need-blind admission policy ensures that your decision to attend Bowdoin will never be influenced by whether or not your family can

afford it.


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

Economics provides a framework for understanding human behavior and the decisions made by people, businesses, and governments as they seek to satisfy their objectives within constraints.

Bowdoin’s department of economics develops students’ ability to apply the discipline’s theoretical and empirical techniques and findings to real-world problems. While economists often focus on the marketplace, economics can shed new light on policy areas as disparate as the environment, family, and legal system. Many economists pursue their work to contribute to social well-being and the common good. 

Our department is committed to supporting the needs of all Bowdoin students, including those who want to be economic analysts and those who want to incorporate economic perspectives into other fields or their everyday lives. Importantly, thinking like an economist is nonpartisan: one can use the tools of economics to benefit others regardless of one’s background, political orientation, or preferred policy outcomes

potential co-authors:
- Martin Abel gender gaps
- Duman B-Rad with his work on kin and marriage, where culture plays an important role
- Daniel F. Stonewith his work on political media

END ECON DEPT