START JOB DESCRIPTION

CEMFI invites applications for up to three tenure-track positions at the Assistant Professor level starting in September 2026. One of the positions is reserved for candidates with research interests in financial economics. The other two are open to candidates in any field.

CEMFI recognizes the positive value of diversity and particularly encourages applications from women and candidates with underrepresented demographics regarding disability, gender identity, race, religion, sexual orientation, socioeconomic background, or other characteristics.

CEMFI is a Graduate School that offers highly selective Master and PhD programs in Economics and Finance. Our faculty conducts research subject to the highest international standards. We are ranked among the top academic institutions in Europe.

Assistant Professors engage in research, supervise graduate students, and teach one or two graduate courses per year. We offer internationally competitive salaries. Candidates should have a PhD in Economics or related fields by the time of appointment. Knowledge of Spanish is not required.

Application Instructions

Candidates should apply via https://econjobmarket.org/positions/11964. They should submit a curriculum vitae, research paper(s), and three reference letters. Selected candidates will be interviewed online in December 2025.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

CEMFI is a leading institution in research and graduate education in economics in Europe. It was founded by the Bank of Spain in 1987 with the objective of promoting excellence in research and training of new generations of economists. CEMFI has an active and stimulating academic environment. Our faculty are leaders in their fields of expertise. Numerous faculty members have been elected Fellows of the Econometric Society, Fellows of the European Economic Association, and Research Fellows of the Centre for Economic Policy Research, among other institutions. Several CEMFI faculty have obtained grants from the European Research Council and one of them was a member of the Scientific Council of the European Research Council. Teaching and research activities at CEMFI are further strengthened by top-notch postdoctoral fellows, graduate students, research fellows, and visiting faculty.

In 2016 and 2021, CEMFI was awarded the "María de Maeztu Unit of Excellence" distinction by the Spanish National Research Agency. This distinction is granted to public research centers and units that demonstrate global scientific leadership and impact.

CEMFI offers a high-quality graduate program leading to Master and PhD degrees in Economics. Some of our graduates have obtained Assistant Professorship positions in top institutions, such as MIT or LSE. CEMFI also organizes multiple other activities throughout the year, such as our Summer School, the Undergraduate Summer Internship program, several seminar series, and academic conferences.

You are welcome to further learn about CEMFI through our website and social media.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT



Applied Economics at CEMFI covers a broad set of topics including urban economics, trade, political economy, development economics, labor, and health economics, among others. The group investigates questions such as: What drives agglomeration economies? What is the role of local political institutions in economic development? What role do firms play in intergenerational mobility? What determines confidence in vaccines? These questions are studied using state-of-the-art econometric techniques and applied theory models.

Our faculty, PhD students, postdocs, and affiliated researchers conduct frontier research regularly participate in the top conferences in the respective fields. The group has hosted several ERC grants, members of the group have obtained several prizes and other distinctions. We invite you to learn more about the Applied Economics group at CEMFI below.

Potential co-authors:
- Yarine Fawaz with her work on newspapers and voting behavior

END ECON DEPT