START JOB DESCRIPTION

The CERDI, a joint research center of the Université Clermont Auvergne, the CNRS, and the IRD, based in Clermont-Ferrand (France) is opening a two-year postdoctoral position in the field of development economics and related fields.

The postdoctoral research associate will primarily collaborate with Pierre Biscaye, Chaire de Professeur Junior at the CERDI, on selected projects at the intersection of development, environmental, energy, and agricultural economics, but there will also be opportunities to pursue independent research subject to bilateral negotiation. Research funds (e.g., for conference travel) may be available on a demand basis. While no teaching duties are attached to the position, postdoctoral research associates may participate in the teaching program if mutually agreed. Postdoctoral research associates are expected to participate actively in the activities of the CERDI.

Position details:

    Contracts are for 2 years, with no teaching duties.
    Salary is approximately 2000-2200 euros (net) per month.
    Starting date is September 1st 2026.

Applications should be submitted before November 30 (midnight UTC), 2025 through EconJobMarket.org.

Interested candidates should upload their CV, cover letter, Job Market Paper, and at least 3 reference letters. They can also upload other supporting materials (e.g., research statement, etc.)

We will interview candidates in December 2025. A selection of candidates will then be invited to Clermont-Ferrand for fly-outs in January (travel costs are fully covered).

Contact: pierre.biscaye@uca.fr

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

CERDI is a research centre dedicated to the study of the process of international development. It brings together economists, CNRS researchers and lecturers of the University of Auvergne (Clermont Ferrand, France) from various fields of competence, who cover both the macroeconomic and microeconomic aspects of development. The countries with low or intermediate levels of income are the focus of the work of CERDI.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT



END ECON DEPT