START JOB DESCRIPTION

The Economics Department at Colgate University invites applications for a tenure-stream position in gender economics or related fields, beginning fall semester 2026. We have teaching needs in the economics of gender, but we will consider candidates who could teach the economics of race, discrimination, demography, or related fields; scholarship in any broadly related field is welcome. We expect to hire at the Assistant Professor level; however, outstanding candidates will be considered for Associate or Full Professor positions.

Colgate is a vibrant liberal arts university of 3,200 students situated in central New York state. Colgate faculty are committed to excellence in both teaching and scholarship. All Colgate faculty are expected to participate in all-university programs, including the Liberal Arts Core Curriculum. Completion of Ph.D. is required prior to or shortly after the date of hire. Further information about the department and this position can be found at http://www.colgate.edu/economics.

A cover letter, curriculum vitae, three letters of recommendation, evidence of teaching experience and effectiveness, and a sample of recent scholarship must be submitted through https://apply.interfolio.com/174615. Colgate strives to be a community supportive of diverse perspectives and identities. In the cover letter, candidates must describe their ability to work effectively with students across a wide range of identities and backgrounds. Review of applications will begin November 15, 2025, and continue until the position is filled. Applicants with dual-career considerations can find postings of other employment opportunities at Colgate and at other institutions of higher education in upstate New York at this website.

Contact: Jyoti Khanna, Chair of the Gender Search Committee, Department of Economics; Colgate University, 13 Oak Drive, Hamilton, NY 13346.

Required Components:

A cover letter that must describe the candidate’s ability to work effectively with students across a wide range of identities and backgrounds

Curriculum Vitae

Three Letters of Recommendation

Evidence of Teaching Experience and Effectiveness

A Sample of Recent Scholarship



Campus Crime Reporting and Statistics

The Department of Campus Safety at Colgate University will provide, upon request, a copy of Colgate’s Annual Security and Fire Safety Report. This report includes statistics as reported to the United States Department of Education for the previous three years concerning reported: 1. crimes that occurred on-campus; in certain off-campus buildings or property owned or controlled by Colgate University; and on public property within, or immediately adjacent to and accessible from, the campus, and 2. fires that occurred in student housing facilities. The report also includes institutional policies concerning campus security and fire safety, such as policies concerning sexual assault, life safety systems, and other related matters. You may access the report from the Clery Compliance web page here. Printed copies of this report may be obtained upon request from the Department of Campus Safety via e-mail at cusafety@colgate.edu.

Qualifications
Application Instructions
Equal Employment Opportunity Statement
Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Policy Statement

It is the policy of Colgate University not to discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment based on their race, color, creed, religion, age, sex, pregnancy, national origin, marital status, disability, protected Veterans status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, being or having been victims of domestic violence or stalking, familial status, or any other categories covered by law. Colgate is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer. Candidates with disabilities, and protected veterans are encouraged to apply. 

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION


We are always ascending.

Surrounded by scenes of unforgettable beauty, and energetic spirit, this is what it feels like to have the best of a research university and a liberal arts college in one, where the best scholars in their fields put teaching first. 
A Distinct Education

Colgate challenges students to be enlightened thinkers and prepares them to be global citizens who will thrive in life and in work. The hallmarks of a Colgate education have stood for centuries: all students are taught to think critically, communicate powerfully, analyze other perspectives, and solve complex problems.
A Shared Curriculum

Colgate’s core curriculum teaches not just topics but habits of mind. The core takes students through an intellectual exploration of questions and courses across all majors, reflecting a liberal arts education that teaches the whole person, and a world that never fits neatly into just one discipline.
Discovery, Discourse, and Debate

Our community embraces differences and recognizes that we learn from each other. We instill our campus community with the value of rigorous, academic discourse. We teach students to investigate issues, to engage in fair discussion, and to listen to each other. Learn more about academic freedom and freedom of expression at Colgate.
Books leaned against each other
Bold Ambition

We are steeped in 200 years of history and continue to build on our bold ambitions. Colgate looks toward its third century with both pride and a sense of possibility.
Looking Forward

The Third-Century Plan represents the largest and most important transformation in the history of Colgate. It will both complete our physical campus and fully realize our potential to become one of the great institutions in the nation.
Fostering a Supportive and Inclusive Community

Colgate cultivates an inclusive campus culture that celebrates and empowers all members of the community, valuing diverse perspectives and backgrounds. Colgate continues to remove barriers, ensuring every student may pursue an affordable education and has access to equitable opportunities across campus.
Sustainability

Championing sustainable practices and overcoming environmental challenges will take a focused and prolonged effort that is intergenerational. Colgate continues this pursuit in three core areas — education, campus operations, and community collaboration.
Professor teaches a class outdoors on a sunny day
Our Foundation
Mission

An assertion of our purpose and principles, Colgate's mission provides the framework for all we do.
History

Colgate was built by remarkable people. Stone by stone, moment by moment, they created an academic community and pursued greater understanding — deo ac veritati. Learn about Colgate's people, places, and great moments.
Traditions

When you arrive at Colgate you're met by a welcoming committee banging pots and pans, cheering on new students — one of our latest traditions. Throughout your Colgate experience, you'll take part in traditions that span generations forming a common bond between alumni.


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

Study the motivations and incentives that shape society, while developing fundamental analytic and quantitative skills.
Colgate honor students listen during a thesis presentation
Colgate honors students listen during a thesis presentation

Colgate’s economics department draws on a broad range of faculty expertise to present a truly interdisciplinary approach to study. We explore decision-making by consumers and firms, the function and role of markets, and public policy evaluation at both the micro and macro levels.

Students benefit from working relationships with faculty through active engagement in research and advanced scholarship, sometimes co-authoring journal articles with their professors. Many graduates of the department go on to pursue careers in finance, consulting, law, business, and public administration, and often receive graduate degrees, including recent PhDs in economics from MIT, Yale, Cornell, and Virginia. 

Incoming first year students interested in studying economics should consult with the Economics department catalog page and our FAQs.

potential co-authors:
-   Mike Levere with the attitudes towards dissabilitites
- David Murphy with social instituional research
- Seonyoung (Young) Park with her work on gender 

END ECON DEPT