START JOB DESCRIPTION

itle: Assistant Professor

Section: US: Full-Time Academic (Permanent, Tenure-Track)

Location: Ithaca, NY, USA

JEL Classification: 00 Default: Any Field
P0 Political Economy & Comparative Economic Systems

H1 Public Economics/Structure and Scope of Government

Keywords: Political Economy

Deadline Date: 11/10/2025

Full Text of JOE Listing:

The DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMICS at CORNELL UNIVERSITY invites applications for an Assistant Professor position in political economy. Outstanding candidates in other fields also will be considered. Candidates must have received a Ph.D. by July 2026 and must demonstrate excellence in research and excellence in teaching.

Information about the Economics Department appears at http://www.economics.cornell.edu. Priority will be given to applications received by November 10, 2025.

Pay Range: $83,200 - $185,000

Actual salary offers in the College of Arts and Sciences will be based on education, experience, discipline, and relevant skills.

APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS

Interested applicants should submit a curriculum vitae, three letters of recommendation, samples of written work, research statement, teaching statement.

Applicants must submit materials through academicjobsonline.org.

Online Application URL: https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/30626

Information for URL: http://www.economics.cornell.edu

For more information, email: econ-search@cornell.edu

For more information, phone: 607-255-5617

Cornell welcomes students, faculty, and staff with diverse backgrounds from across the globe to pursue world-class education and career opportunities, to further the founding principle of “... any person ... any study.” No person shall be denied employment on the basis of any legally protected status or subjected to prohibited discrimination involving, but not limited to, such factors as race, ethnic or national origin, citizenship and immigration status, color, sex, pregnancy or pregnancy-related conditions, age, creed, religion, actual or perceived disability (including persons associated with such a person), arrest and/or conviction record, military or veteran status, sexual orientation, gender expression and/or identity, an individual’s genetic information, domestic violence victim status, familial status, marital status, or any other characteristic protected by applicable federal, state, or local law.

Cornell University embraces diversity in its workforce and seeks job candidates who will contribute to a climate that supports students, faculty, and staff of all identities and backgrounds. We hire based on merit, and encourage people from historically underrepresented and/or marginalized identities to apply. Consistent with federal law, Cornell engages in affirmative action in employment for qualified protected veterans as defined in the Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act (VEVRRA) and qualified individuals with disabilities under Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations in accordance with applicable law.

To apply, visit https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/30626. (See posting for details.) 

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION


University Mission

Learning. Discovery. Engagement.

Cornell is a private, Ivy League university and the land-grant university for New York state. Cornell’s mission is to discover, preserve and disseminate knowledge, to educate the next generation of global citizens, and to promote a culture of broad inquiry throughout and beyond the Cornell community. Cornell also aims, through public service, to enhance the lives and livelihoods of students, the people of New York and others around the world.
View of campus from Barnes Hall Tower
University Vision

Cornell aspires to be the exemplary comprehensive research university for the 21st century. Faculty, staff and students thrive at Cornell because of its unparalleled combination of quality and breadth; its open, collaborative and innovative culture; its founding commitment to diversity and inclusion; its vibrant rural and urban campuses; and its land-grant legacy of public engagement.
University Core Values

Purposeful discovery, free and open inquiry and expression, a community of belonging, exploration across boundaries, changing lives through engagement and respect for the natural environment constitute Cornell’s core values.

    Learn More

Founding Principle

    "I would found an institution where any person can find instruction in any study."

- Ezra Cornell, 1868

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

The Cornell University Department of Economics offers a unique combination of theoretical and analytical rigor, and concern for real world problems. An unusually broad range of courses gives students an understanding of the way economies operate and an insight into public issues. 

Currently, the department has more than 50 faculty members, 500 majors, 100 Ph.D. students, and serves over 5,000 students on campus each year.

The Economics Department is committed to fostering an inclusive culture and positive climate for all at Cornell University and in the Economics profession more broadly. Learn more about our diversity and inclusion initiatives here.

potential co-authors:
- Michèle Belot and ELEONORA PATACCHINI  on gender economics

END ECON DEPT