START JOB DESCRIPTION

Three Assistant Professor (“Profesor Ayudante Doctor”) positions in the Department of Economic Analysis at Complutense University in Madrid (https://www.ucm.es/fundamentos-analisis-economico2) is opened in October 2025

Expected starting date: December 2025-January 2026. Details to be discussed with the Head of the Department.

Formal Requirements before the application deadline:

    Completed (not expected) PhD from a relevant research university before submitting the application. For candidates with doctoral degrees awarded by a non-Spanish institution, a degree equivalence certificate is required (see details in https://edoctorado.ucm.es/solicitud-de-equivalencia).
    Native or fluent Spanish. For non-natives, a C1-level Spanish language certificate is required. The exam is administered by Instituto Cervantes worldwide (see for dates and fees https://www.ucm.es/ccee/dele and https://examenes.cervantes.es/es/dele/examenes/c1).

What we expect from candidates;

    Teaching: ability to convey teaching material in a rigorous and engaging way to students (undergraduate and master), with a maximum of 6 hours per week on average and possibility to negotiate whether teaching is concentrated in a term or spread throughout the year. Expected teaching may include an array of courses, mostly related to economic theory (macro and micro), mathematics and econometrics (exceptionally, more specific fields such as quantitative finance, industrial organization, game theory, environmental economics, etc.).
    Research: publications in leading journals in your field and dissemination in conferences and media; ability to secure competitive research funding over time; organise research events in your field.

What we offer:

    An active teaching and research environment with weekly seminars (see https://www.ucm.es/icae/), research funding and mentoring by senior faculty members.
    Competitive salary by Spanish standards, roughly 28,000 euros yearly salary (see details in https://www.ucm.es/portaldetransparencia/retribuciones-pdil-2024). Bonuses for teaching excellence (granted at the university level see https://www.ucm.es/opc/docentia-ucm) and research excellence (granted every six years by an independent government agency, see https://www.aneca.es/sexenios).
    Non-monetary benefits: free medical doctor and physiotherapist on campus; flexible starting time for families with children; discount for health insurance; reduced tickets for selected city concerts and summer/winter camps for children (https://www.ucm.es/accion-social).

Job openings details is formally announced in the UCM openings webpage https://www.ucm.es/convocatoria-publicada-en-el-bouc-de-10-de-1 and published in the official UCM bulletin.

Interested candidates will be directed to apply formally on our official platform and are encouraged to contact members of the management team before formal application:

Francisco J. André, Head of the Department (fandre@ucm.es)

Ester Camiña, Vice-Head (subdireccion.danae@ucm.es)

Haydée Lugo, Secretary (hlugo@ucm.es)

Submission materials required

    Curriculum vitae
    Job market paper
    Additional paper (optional)
    Additional paper (optional)
    Other material (in one file) (optional)
    Cover letter
    Video presentation of job market paper (optional)
    Letters of reference: 2


END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Mission and Vision

The Complutense University of Madrid (UCM) is an institution with a long trajectory and broad social recognition that aspires to be among the first universities in Europe and to consolidate itself as a reference centre for the Latin American continent.

With students at the centre of its activity, the UCM is committed to integral and critical training at the highest level. Teaching quality is an authentic "complutense seal" and postgraduate programmes are a priority. The master's and doctoral programs of the Complutense University have the human and material resources that guarantee their excellence. The rapprochement and intensification of relations with society and the productive environment is one of our priorities for the coming years.

The UCM has great research potential and many of its research groups hold international leadership positions. UCM is committed to developing poles of excellence based on large networks of high quality groups, promoting emerging groups and integrating young researchers. And, of course, by linking research with training at all undergraduate and postgraduate levels.

 

The organization of the UCM is user oriented, simplifying administrative procedures. Its activity responds to the principles of democracy, transparency, campus sustainability, real and virtual accessibility, preservation of the environment and commitment to the social and economic environment.

The UCM is a quality public university at the service of society and offers its students undergraduate and postgraduate degrees that are widely accepted in the labour market.

The academic and research excellence of the UCM has been endorsed by the qualification, together with the Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, of the Campus of International Excellence in the highest category A-Good Progress.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT



END ECON DEPT