START JOB DESCRIPTION

Full-Time Faculty Position in Economics (Social Sciences), School of Liberal Arts and Sciences
 
 
Category: 	Faculty
Subscribe: 	New Job Alerts
RSS Job Feed
Department: 	320 Social Sciences
Locations: 	New York, NY
Posted: 	Aug 1, 2025
Closes: 	Oct 2, 2025 - 11:59 PM EDT
Type: 	Full-time
Ref. No.: 	X
Salary Type: 	Annually
Salary Range: 	$69,346.37 - $142,271.78
Position ID: 	190784
Print Friendly Facebook Sharing Feature Twitter Sharing Feature LinkedIn Sharing Feature
[Share] Share

About Fashion Institute of Technology:

The Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT), an internationally renowned college of art and design, business and technology, of the State University of New York, invites nominations and applications for a full-time tenure-track faculty position in the Social Sciences Department, School of Liberal Arts and Sciences.

The Fashion Institute of Technology, a part of the State University of New York, has been a leader in career education in art, design, business, and technology for nearly 80 years. With a curriculum that provides a singular blend of hands-on, practical experience, classroom study, and a firm grounding in the liberal arts, FIT offers a wide range of outstanding programs that are relevant to today's rapidly changing industries. Internationally renowned, FIT draws on its New York City location to provide a vibrant, creative community in which to learn. The college offers more than 45 majors and grants AAS, BFA, BS, MA, MFA, and MPS degrees, preparing students for professional success and leadership in the global marketplace.

With close ties to industry, FIT draws faculty from the city's art, business, and design elite, and from the rich academic community of the region. The College continually seeks creative faculty members who are passionate about their field and demonstrate exceptional professional capability in the core competencies of instruction design, learning enrichment, globalism, and use of technology, as well as mastery of established and emerging industry practices.

The School of Liberal Arts and Sciences provides the foundation for a FIT degree, and is committed to providing a broad-based general education for FIT students, integrating traditional academic study with career preparation. The School is home to six academic departments, thirty academic minors, and two interdisciplinary majors. Our faculty prepare students to become reflective, critical, and engaged citizens of the world. Committed to scholarship, academic service and student-centered instruction, faculty members foster an understanding of diverse cultures and international perspectives as well as an appreciation for the richness and changing composition of American culture.

The Social Sciences Department seeks to create and nurture an environment of innovative, interdisciplinary learning that enables students to develop diverse and multicultural perspectives so that they will be better prepared to function in a complex and global society. Courses are offered in economics, history, philosophy, political science, psychology, and sociology. Due to this multidisciplinary composition, the Department of Social Sciences is uniquely positioned to offer many and varied courses designed to increase students' understanding and appreciation of the historical and contemporary diversity of national and global society.


Job Description:

The Social Sciences Department seeks a full-time faculty member in Economics. The successful candidate must demonstrate a commitment to curricular innovation and program growth; contribute to a coherently articulated program of instruction in Economics across varying levels of competency; design, prepare, implement and evaluate syllabi; assist with the development and administration of assessment instruments; participate in professional development programs, mentor students; and engage in departmental and college service.

The successful candidate should demonstrate a record of scholarship, excellence in teaching, and engagement in college service.

Successful candidates will excel in the following areas:

Globalism

    Demonstrate an awareness of global economic issues and their impact on the economics discipline.
    Demonstrate an understanding of the international connections within the local and regional community.
    Demonstrate the ability to work effectively in global settings with international colleagues from different backgrounds.
    Demonstrate appreciation for cultural diversity and have a positive approach to cultural differences.
    Demonstrate the ability to work within, support, and maintain productive relationships in multicultural environments and models of inclusive behaviors for students.
    Demonstrate awareness and sensitivity to all multicultural groups and incorporate this understanding into instructional and learning experiences.
    Demonstrate the ability to recognize and balance differing world views based on the depth and breadth of knowledge and awareness of other people, countries, cultures, and beliefs.
    Incorporate the values of sustainability and ecology into the learning process.

Instructional Design

    Design and deliver course content that reflects a balance between traditional thought, contemporary practice, and the state of the art in one's field.
    Design and deliver coursework in a manner that links learning objectives across disciplines and reflects how work is performed in industry.
    Integrate course concepts with related curricula, disciplines, and professional practice.
    Design and deliver coursework that integrates knowledge in the context of an art and design educational background.
    Balance both theory and the practical application of knowledge, inclusive of building skills that are required for professional success.
    Create a learning experience that requires collaborative exercises, real world problem solving, and a skills-based approach to learning.
    Adapt course content to adjust to changing and emerging industry, global, and consumer trends while respecting local issues and challenges.
    Design classroom and other learning experiences that foster and cultivate critical thinking, problem solving, information literacy skills, and creativity.
    Utilize instructional variety in order to accommodate students of different learning styles, abilities, demographics, or diversity.
    Maintain industry relevance that allows integration of professional practice with classroom learning.

Learning Enrichment

    Demonstrate the ability to utilize a variety of instructional delivery methods to enhance student learning.
    Embrace and utilize emerging forms of pedagogy in economics, where appropriate, such as team teaching, online teaching, interdisciplinary methods, active learning, etc.
    Teach students how to integrate, synthesize, and utilize information in the economics discipline.
    Develop students' information literacy skills and provide instruction in identifying, locating, selecting, organizing, evaluating, and presenting information appropriately.
    Facilitate and foster the development of students' critical thinking, problem solving, and communication skills, as well as critical analysis and thoughtful skepticism.
    Encourage student interaction, collaboration, teamwork, and cooperation in the learning process and environment.
    Demonstrate the ability to inspire student interest, curiosity, imagination, creativity, and love of learning.
    Demonstrate the ability to support different student learning styles and abilities.
    Embrace the emerging roles of faculty as facilitators, mentors, integrators, and decipherers of information and knowledge.

Professionalism

    Demonstrate understanding and mastery of established and emerging economic practices and their importance and relevance to FIT students.
    Demonstrate currency and active engagement in the economics discipline.
    Engage in creative/scholarly activities in the economics discipline.
    Model professional behavior that prepares students for entry into the field of economics.
    Develop and maintain a network of alumni and industry experts who can be called upon as resources for course and curriculum development, focus groups, guest speakers, internships, and career placement opportunities for students.
    Maintain positive, helpful, supportive, respectful, collegial, and collaborative relationships with colleagues and professionals.
    Support FIT, its mission, goals, and initiatives through both classroom and non-classroom activities.

Technology

    Incorporate instructional technology into the delivery of course material and learning experiences.
    Utilize learning experiences that expose students to the uses of technology in their chosen discipline, industry, or profession.
    Utilize technology appropriately to communicate with, and engage students in learning outside of the classroom.
    Understand and appreciate the advantages and limitations of using technology for compiling, organizing, analyzing, and synthesizing information.
    Utilize technology and electronic information effectively to enhance one's professional productivity in areas that include, but not limited to communication, collaboration, research, and problem resolution, as well as enhancement of one's professional development.

The preceding description is not designed to be a complete list of all duties and responsibilities required of the position; other duties may be assigned consistent with the classification of the position.


Requirements:

Minimum Qualifications:

    Candidates must have a PhD in Economics. ABDs will be considered with the understanding that successful defense of the dissertation is required prior to the start of the second semester of employment.
    Candidates must have relevant college-level teaching experience and a record of scholarship.

Preferred Qualifications:

    A background and interest in political economy with a focus on inequality, social and economic justice and/or in cultural economics is highly desirable.


Additional Information:

Please note, all offers of employment are contingent upon successful completion of the background check process.

Salary

The final starting salary and appointment rank will be based on education level and cumulative experience; Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) Salary Schedules pgs. 73-74.

Instructor: $69,346.37 - $80,793.82
Assistant Professor: $80,736.40 - $118,984.88
Associate Professor: $94,498.31 - $142,271.78
Professor: $115,232.32 - $173,403.37

The College reserves the right to select one or more candidates after having been duly reviewed and presented to the President in conformance with the provisions of Article 15 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.

Benefits

The Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT) provides comprehensive employee benefit programs designed to help keep our faculty and staff and their families healthy, safe, happy, and productive. Our programs also include a variety of components to help our employees improve the quality and balance of their work and family lives, and to help them prepare for their futures.

    Retirement Plans
    Health Care Plan and Dental Plan
    Employee Assistance Program
    Flexible Spending Account
    Commuter Benefit Plan
    FIT Tuition Exemption Program
    Qualifying Employer for the Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Program

For a full list of FIT benefits, visit our benefits webpage.

Pay Equity by State Employers

Pursuant to Executive Order 161, no State entity, as defined by the Executive Order, is permitted to ask, or mandate, in any form, that an applicant for employment provide his or her current compensation, or any prior compensation history, until such time as the applicant is extended a conditional offer of employment with compensation. If such information has been requested from you before such time, please contact the Governor's Office of Employee Relations at (518) 474-6988 or via email at info@goer.ny.gov.

Visa Sponsorship 

This position may be eligible for visa sponsorship by the Fashion Institute of Technology. 

Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Statement

FIT is firmly committed to creating an environment that will attract and retain people from a range of backgrounds.  FIT is firmly committed to creating a learning and working environment  that encourages, utilizes, respects, and appreciates the full expression of every individual's ability. The FIT community fosters its mission and grows because of its rich, pluralistic experience. FIT is committed to prohibiting discrimination, whether on the basis of race, color, creed, age, national origin, immigration or citizenship status, gender, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, partnership status, caregiver status, sexual and reproductive health decisions, uniformed service, height, weight, any lawful source of income, status as a victim of domestic violence or as a victim of sex offenses or stalking, whether children are, may be or would be residing with a person or conviction or arrest record, or any other characteristic protected by applicable federal, state, or local laws. FIT is committed to providing equal opportunity in employment, including the opportunity for upward mobility for all qualified individuals. Applications from veterans and persons with disabilities are encouraged. Inquiries regarding FIT's non-discrimination policies may be directed to the Chief Equal Employment Opportunity Officer/Title IX Coordinator, 212 217.3360.

Annual Security Report

The safety and well-being of FIT's students, faculty, staff, and visitors is of paramount importance.  Pursuant to the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, FIT publishes an annual report containing crime statistics and statements of security policy, accessible here: Safety Statistics. A paper copy of the report will be provided upon request by contacting Public Safety's administrative office number at (212) 217-4999.

Physical Requirements and Work Environment

The working conditions for this position will be any combination of the classroom, lab, and/or office space. Certain roles may be required to handle machinery and chemicals. The physical requirement for this position will require occasional sitting, constant standing, occasional bending, frequent walking, and occasionally lifting 10 lbs. or less.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION



As one of New York City’s premier public institutions and a part of the State University of New York, FIT is an internationally recognized college for design, fashion, art, communications, and business. We’re known for our rigorous, creative, and dynamic academic programs; experiential learning opportunities; academic and industry partnerships; and commitment to research, innovation, diversity, and entrepreneurship.

FIT's mission is to prepare students for excellence and leadership in the creative industries. We encourage students, faculty, and industry partners to cross geographic and professional boundaries. Through independent thinking, collaboration, and an unconventional perspective, we strive to develop design and strategic business solutions that will upend the status quo, create opportunity, and have a lasting and sustainable global impact.


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT



END ECON DEPT