START JOB DESCRIPTION


Description

GRINNELL COLLEGE. The Department of Economics invites applications for a tenure-track appointment beginning Fall 2026. Assistant Professor (Ph.D.) preferred; Instructor (ABD) or Associate Professor possible. Research and teaching interests should include Economic History. The successful candidate should be prepared to teach at least one field course and one seminar in Economic History. The ideal candidate will also be prepared to teach at least one of Introduction to Economics, Econometrics, Intermediate Microeconomics, or Intermediate Macroeconomics. The teaching load is five courses over two semesters; periodically one course will be Tutorial (a topical writing/critical thinking course for first-year students, the only College-wide requirement beyond the completion of a major in an individually-advised curriculum).  New faculty members at Grinnell receive a one-course reduction during their first year, so the teaching schedule will be four courses in the first year of the appointment. Additional information about our curriculum and faculty can be found at https://www.grinnell.edu/academics/majors-concentrations/economics.
Qualifications

Assistant Professor (Ph.D.) preferred; Instructor (ABD) or Associate Professor possible.
Application Instructions

In letters of application, candidates should discuss their interest in developing as a teacher and scholar in a highly selective undergraduate liberal arts college that emphasizes close student-faculty interaction. They should also discuss their potential to contribute to a college community that maintains a diversity of people and perspectives as one of its core values. To be assured of full consideration, all application materials should be received by November 14th. We anticipate conducting first-round interviews in early to mid-December and hosting campus visits in late January.  Candidates will need to upload a letter of application, curriculum vitae, transcripts (copies are acceptable), a sample research paper, a statement of teaching philosophy (with teaching interests) and, if possible, evidence of teaching effectiveness, and provide email addresses for three references. Questions about this search should be directed to the search chair, Professor Logan M. Lee, at [EconomicsSearch@grinnell.edu] or 641-269-4803.
Application Process
This institution is using Interfolio's Faculty Search to conduct this search. Applicants to this position receive a free Dossier account and can send all application materials, including confidential letters of recommendation, free of charge.
Apply Now
Equal Employment Opportunity Statement

Grinnell College is committed to establishing and maintaining a safe and nondiscriminatory educational environment for all College community members. It is committed to a policy of nondiscrimination in matters of admission, employment, and housing, and in access to and participation in its education programs, services, and activities.  The College does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, national origin, age, sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, marital status, veteran status, pregnancy, childbirth, religion, disability, creed or any other protected class. Discrimination and harassment on any of the bases covered by state or federal antidiscrimination statutes is unlawful and a violation of Grinnell College policy.

Grinnell College recognizes that harassment can relate to an individual's membership in more than one protected class.  Targeting individuals on the basis of their membership in any protected class is also a violation of Grinnell's Community Standards and Responsibilities and may violate the College's Hate Crime and Bias-Motivated Incident Policy.  Under these circumstances, the College will coordinate the investigation and resolution, provided that doing so does not unduly delay prompt and equitable resolution under this policy.

This policy prohibits sexual harassment, sexual violence, sexual assault, and intimate partner violence against Grinnell College community members of any gender, gender identity, gender expression, or sexual orientation.  This policy also prohibits gender-based harassment that does not involve conduct of a sexual nature.

The College has grievance procedures for any individual who has experienced harassment or discrimination and wishes to pursue resolution.

An offer for this position will be contingent on successful completion of a background check.


END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION



When Grinnell College framed its charter in the Iowa Territory of the United States in 1846, it set forth a mission to educate its students "for the different professions and for the honorable discharge of the duties of life." The College pursues that mission by providing an education in the liberal arts through free inquiry and the open exchange of ideas. As a teaching and learning community, the College holds that knowledge is a good to be pursued both for its own sake and for the intellectual, moral, and physical well-being of individuals and of society at large. The College exists to provide a lively academic community of students and teachers of high scholarly qualifications from diverse social and cultural circumstances. The College aims to graduate individuals who can think clearly, who can speak and write persuasively and even eloquently, who can evaluate critically both their own and others' ideas, who can acquire new knowledge, and who are prepared in life and work to use their knowledge and their abilities to serve the common good.
Core Values

    Two students working together at a computer
    Excellence in Education for Students in the Liberal Arts
        Varied forms of learning, in and out of the classroom and beyond the campus.
        Creative and critical thinking stimulated by the free, open exchange of ideas.
        Education that reflects on its own process.
        Excellent teaching as the highest priority of the faculty.
        Active scholarship in traditional and interdisciplinary fields.
        Need-blind admission of students with strong academic potential.
    groups of students on mac field
    A Diverse Community
        A wide diversity of people and perspectives.
        A residential campus in a setting that promotes close interactions.
        Personal, egalitarian, and respectful interactions among all members of the college community.
        Meeting full demonstrated financial-aid need of admitted and continuing students.
        Support for professional well-being of all whose work contributes to the college.
    student collects water samples from creek
    Social Responsibility
        Our strong tradition of social responsibility and action.
        Our strong tradition of self-governance and personal responsibility.
        Learning from and communicating with the world beyond the campus.
        Life-long connections that support friendship, work, and learning.
        Continuing to build institutional strength for educating tomorrow's students.

Free Speech, Inclusion, and Community: Guiding Principles

Grinnell College's mission is to provide "an education in the liberal arts through free inquiry and the open exchange of ideas." Free inquiry and open exchange require exposure to a diversity of perspectives and respectful engagement with those perspectives across our differences. Indeed, such engagement is vital for an intellectual community committed to the production and sharing of knowledge.  This requires providing a learning environment that is both tolerant of disagreement and committed to civil dialogue that respectfully embraces our shared humanity. Grinnell must support and encourage free speech and expression, while creating an environment free from harassment and discrimination. As we endeavor to balance these multiple responsibilities, several principles guide us:

    students, faculty, staff gather for town hall meeting
    Freedom of Speech and Dialogue Across Difference

    Because we value a diversity of peoples and perspectives, our campus environment must be an inclusive space that cultivates both critical thinking and dialogue across difference. Since education and learning are our focus, we must be willing to tolerate the discomfort of having our views respectfully challenged. We must also be willing to confidently share our own perspectives without stifling the rights of others to do so. Inclusive teaching practices and effective communication skills are essential to creating a positive learning environment for our students.
    students hold parade banner "More Culture, Less Shock"
    Freedom of Speech and Expression as a Civil Right

    Freedom of speech and freedom of expression are rights protected by the U.S. Constitution, and these rights belong to all domestic and international Grinnellians. The College has a responsibility to respect these rights but may establish rules governing the time, place, and manner of speech, expression, and protest. The College is also responsible for dealing with those who engage in behaviors that infringe upon the rights of others. Behaviors designed to intimidate or hinder others from accessing the benefits provided by the College are strictly prohibited. Harassment and discrimination will not be tolerated and may result in disciplinary outcomes and/or legal consequences.
    student presents research poster to faculty
    Freedom of Speech and Academic Freedom

    Academic freedom supports freedom of inquiry and exchange, a fundamental value of the educational enterprise and our institutional mission. In addition to constitutional free-speech protections, Grinnell College faculty members are entitled to academic freedom in their teaching, research, and publishing, as defined in the Faculty Handbook. This entitlement comes with the duty to maintain professional ethics and uphold College policies against discrimination and harassment.

In summary, Grinnell College endeavors to balance multiple responsibilities as we prioritize student learning and serving the common good. These responsibilities include providing a lively, rigorous, educational experience that supports diversity as a core value, upholding the parallel and complementary ideals of freedom of speech, freedom of expression, and academic freedom, and protecting our community members from harassment and discrimination.

The policies which implement these principles include but are not limited to:

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

Challenge yourself with different ways of thinking about common problems.

Fuel, food, water, time — resources that society needs but that can be in short supply. By studying economics, you’ll learn to think critically about individual and collective decisions over the use of resources and how these decisions can transform societies, for better or worse. From poverty to pollution, import tariffs to procrastination about saving for retirement, students in economics use intuition, math, and data to build and test models about everyday choices made by individuals and firms in a variety of settings. 

In coursework, students engage in economic modeling and applied research. In doing so, you’ll learn to express your ideas clearly and know how to back them up with evidence. You will be well prepared for graduate study not only in economics but also in law, public affairs, health and business administration, and other social sciences and for careers in public policy, business, finance, data science, journalism, and more.

END ECON DEPT