START JOB DESCRIPTION

Haverford College invites applications for two tenure-track positions as Assistant Professor of Economics.

Haverford College invites applications for two tenure-track positions as Assistant Professor of Economics with primary specializations in macroeconomics and empirical microeconomics, respectively. The appointments will begin in the fall of 2026. Successful candidates must: have earned the PhD by July 1, 2026; demonstrate an independent and productive research program which has the potential to involve undergraduates; teach effectively at all levels of the economics curriculum while also offering advanced electives in their field of expertise; have the ability to mentor a diverse set of students in their research activities; show interest in and support of diversity initiatives within the economics department; and contribute to a collegial, inclusive, and active economics community. Candidates with teaching or research interests that contribute to our interdisciplinary programs, including but not limited to Africana Studies, Gender and Sexuality Studies, Health Studies, Environmental Studies, Mathematical Economics, Peace Justice and Human Rights, specific area (geographical) studies, Scientific Computing, and Transnational Studies, will be viewed positively. 

Haverford College is a research-intensive liberal arts college with class sizes that support close student-faculty interactions. It is located on an arboretum just outside Philadelphia, enabling easy access to the Philadelphia International Airport and Amtrak. Haverford College is part of a Tri-College Consortium with neighboring Swarthmore College and Bryn Mawr College and is also part of the non-sectarian “Quaker Consortium,” which includes the Tri-Colleges and the University of Pennsylvania, and provides particularly close connections with these institutions. Faculty can engage with these communities through collaborations as well as shared resources and events. The successful candidates will be encouraged to engage with our faculty mentoring program and Teaching and Learning Institute. These resources, as well as competitive start-up packages, reasonable teaching loads, and generous sabbatical leave policies, serve to support faculty success in their teaching, research, and other areas of professional development.

Haverford College invites applications for two tenure-track Assistant Professor positions in Economics, with specializations in macroeconomics and empirical microeconomics. The appointments begin in fall 2026. Successful candidates must: have a PhD by July 1, 2026; demonstrate an independent and productive research program with the potential to involve undergraduates; teach effectively at all levels of the curriculum; mentor diverse students in their research activities; show interest in and support of diversity initiatives within the economics department; and contribute to a collegial, inclusive, and active economics community. Candidates with teaching/research interests that contribute to our interdisciplinary programs will be viewed positively.

Applicants should submit their dossier via Interfolio by October 27, 2025, including: a cover letter; a CV; a statement on research (2-3 pages); a statement of teaching interests, philosophy, and experience (1-2 pages); a statement demonstrating commitment to fostering a diverse and inclusive campus culture (1-2 pages); a writing sample; and three confidential letters of recommendation. In the cover letter, please indicate which position you are applying for, or whether you wish to be considered for both positions.

More information is available at https://www.haverford.edu/provost/available-positions.
Application Requirements:

    External Application Link
    Letters of Reference Instructions Below

Application deadline: 10/27/2025
Reference Instructions:
Applicants should arrange for three confidential letters of recommendation to be
submitted directly by the recommenders via Interfolio.


END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Haverford is, first and foremost, an educational institution committed to academic excellence and individual growth. A foundational appreciation for continuing revelation and recognizing the inherent value in every person makes Haverford distinct. Our culture is built upon mutual trust, concern, integrity, and respect, reflected in these core values, which each member of the community has a responsibility to uphold.
Academic Excellence and Open Inquiry

We value a rigorous liberal arts education that broadens and enriches intellectual and personal growth, and prepares students for lives of integrity, ambition, purpose, and ethical impact in local and global settings. We value free and open inquiry as fundamental to learning, scholarship, and discovery—the core tenets of academic freedom.
Freedom of Expression

In a diverse learning environment, we welcome differing perspectives, which are essential to the pursuit of truth and knowledge. We have a shared responsibility for engaging in reasoned and respectful dialogue, especially when confronted with ideas counter to our own.
Inclusion and Belonging for All

We value every person’s inherent worth, experiences, and contributions to the community. We strive to maintain an equitable, accessible, and welcoming environment where students, staff, and faculty of all backgrounds, perspectives, abilities, and experiences can learn, work, and thrive.
Ethical Inquiry and Leadership

We seek to understand the potential impacts of our individual and collective research, teaching, creative work, and community engagement to make ethically-grounded contributions to society.
Sustainability and the Natural Environment

We recognize our connection to the environment and act as responsible stewards to support the wellbeing of current and future generations.
The core of the classroom experience is learning from the professor’s research and scholarship, and having the opportunity to be an active, vital participant in every class.

It is expected that all students will be involved in research—students are true collaborators and trusted colleagues in the classroom, working directly with the material and ideas of the discipline.

Alexandra Morrison '18 in the field in Alaska, analyzing a large oil residue sample that was released into the coastal environment in Prince William Sound following the 1964 earthquake. Morrison conducted her senior research with Provost & The William H. and Johanna A. Harris Professor in Environmental Studies and Chemistry Helen White.
Photo: Helen White
Our Academic Centers enrich scholarship beyond the boundaries of the traditional classroom.

They play an essential role by supporting cutting edge research, invigorating the arts on campus, and sending students across the globe for life-changing experiences that give them firsthand contact with the material they’re studying.

With support from the Center for Peace and Global Citizenship, students from Jonathan Wilson’s “Economic Botany” class spent a week studying abundant plants, diverse wildlife, and rich culture in Trinidad and Tobago.
Center for Peace and Global Citizenship
Hurford Center for the Arts and Humanities
Koshland Integrated Natural Sciences Center
Photo: Antony Scully
The Honor Code is written and governed solely by students. It is an important example of the ways in which students determine the course of their Haverford experience.

Students here are uncommonly engaged in the life of the community: In addition to governing the honor code, students serve on hiring committees, manage budgets, and run more than 140 clubs and organizations

Students voting on proposed resolutions to the Honor Code at Fall Plenary. A Plenary vote requires a quorum of more than half the student-body and all resolutions are proposed by students.
Photo: Abigail Harrison '19
Our serene campus, located just outside Philadelphia, is a beautiful and stimulating environment.

The campus has 200 acres of award-winning architecture and landscaping, more than 50 academic, athletic and residential buildings, and a nationally recognized arboretum with 400 species of trees and shrubs, a 3.5-acre duck pond, gardens and wooded areas.

A view of Barclay Hall from the Duck Pond


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT



Economics comprises a variety of theoretical approaches to understanding human behavior, social interactions, and economic performance, and a set of powerful statistical tools that can be used to test competing theories empirically.

The economics curriculum at Haverford offers introductory and upper level courses both in theory and empirical methods, as well as numerous electives on a broad range of economic topics.

potetial co-authors:
- Giri Parameswaran with his work on political economics and some gender

END ECON DEPT