START JOB DESCRIPTION

Full Text of JOE Listing:


Hiroshima University (HU) herewith makes an open international job offer and seeks to appoint a Professor with tenure, Associate Professor with tenure, or Associate Professor/Assistant Professor on the Tenure Track System in the research area of Behavioral Economics and Behavioral Science. This position is based on the `Policy for recruiting/cultivating excellent faculty members'. The university introduced this policy to create a secure environment in which junior-positioned faculty members can concentrate on their research/education.

The post above has been newly created at HU to enable the promotion of the applicant to the senior position of Associate Professor on the condition that he/she pass the tenure-track review before the tenure-track period expires. Such a system assumes that the recruited person will settle down in one place so that he/she can dedicate himself/herself to research and education in accordance with his/her proposed research.

Therefore, when processing an application for recruitment, we evaluate not only each applicant's performance on research/education, but also the contents and the scope of his/her research plan. Thus, we assess whether or not the applicant's research plan is mid-to-long term (i.e. about 10 years) in scope, exceeding the tenure-track period. At the time of the review for the tenured promotion, we comprehensively evaluate the applicant's achievements during his/her term at HU and the prospects of his/her research.

We are looking forward to welcoming those who are prepared to go along with the principles, long-term vision, and medium-term target of HU, and who are motivated and can play key roles by committing themselves to research and education at HU.

Mitsuo Ochi, President of Hiroshima University
https://www.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/en/employment/kyoinkobo

The IDEC Institute, Center for Peaceful and Sustainable Futures

Precautions: Also in charge of the Graduate School of Humanities and Social Sciences (International Economic Development Program) and the Graduate School of Innovation and Practice for Smart Society (Social Innovation Science)

Applicants must be able to perform university administrative duties in Japanese.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION


Principles and Vision
Guiding Principles

    The Pursuit of Peace
    To develop intellectual attitudes which always seek peaceful solutions to the problems affecting society and the world at large. 
     
    The Creation of New Forms of Knowledge
    To evolve new systems of study which surpass existing frontiers of knowledge and encourage intellectual innovation.
     
    The Nurturing of Well-Rounded Human Beings
    To train graduates with well-developed and multifaceted personalities by means of an education which has breadth as well as depth.
     
    Collaboration with the Local, Regional, and International Community
    To create a university with a strong international awareness which can efficiently disseminate knowledge on a worldwide scale, in collaboration with local and regional communities.
     
    Continuous Self-Development
    To maintain a constant readiness to re-examine established ways of acting, and a constant openness to improvement and innovation.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

- My research is intrincically linked with bhavioral economics, since the traditional economic models shpuld not expect that fictional narratives have any impact in preferences for economic decisions.
- In addtion, I empirically test a behavioral economics theory of attribute framing 

END ECON DEPT