START JOB DESCRIPTION


Economics Specialist
City:  Washington DC
Company:  IDB
Posting End Date:  October 17, 2025
We improve lives

The IDB Group is a community of diverse, versatile, and passionate people who come together on a journey to improve lives in Latin America and the Caribbean. Our people find purpose and do what they love in an inclusive, collaborative, agile, and rewarding environment.
About this position

The IDB, through the Productivity, Trade and Innovation Sector (PTI) provides funding, technical assistance and knowledge products to support governments in key action areas such as productive development, entrepreneurship, digital transformation, trade and investment facilitation, export promotion and investment attraction, public-private synergies, tourism, rural development, and agriculture.

PTI Is looking for a highly motivated and collaborative Economics Specialist. In this role, the selected candidate will contribute to the elaboration of policy research projects and working papers on productivity, trade, investment, and tourism, integrating technical expertise into the Bank's operations and sectoral activities, ensuring that PTI’s research, data, and policy instruments are applied effectively to benefit client countries. 
What you’ll do

    Contribute to the design, preparation, and execution of policy research projects on productivity, trade, investment, tourism, and relevant public policies thereon.
    Produce working papers and policy research reports on productivity, trade, investment and tourism according to the highest scientific standards as well as disseminate them through publications in professional journals, presentations in internal and external scientific and policy workshops and conferences, and pieces for general audiences such as blogs.
    Contribute to the effective integration of technical knowledge and analysis into the design, monitoring, and evaluation of PTI’s operations, technical cooperations, and initiatives, including with the private sector (platforms, fora, events).
    Contribute to the rigorous evaluation of productivity, trade, investment, and tourism policies and institutions in LAC, and provide evidence-based policy recommendations to IDBG’s member countries.
    Participate in joint research projects, data gathering initiatives, and dialogue with other areas of the IDBG; multilateral, regional, international, and national institutions; and leading universities.
    Contribute to IDBG’s country programming exercises and policy dialogues.
    Provide technical inputs to relevant IDBG-wide initiatives and activities.
    Work in close coordination with PTI Sector Economic Advisor and all PTI organizational areas.

What you'll need

    Education: Ph.D. degree in Economics.
    Experience: At least 4 years of progressive experience in policy research and data analysis in productivity, international trade, and investment. Publications in scientific journals and policy research collaborations with government entities or international organizations are a plus.
    Languages: Proficiency in Spanish and English, spoken and written, is required. Additional knowledge of French and Portuguese is preferable. 

Requirements

Citizenship: You are a citizen of one of our 48-member countries. We may offer assistance with relocation and visa applications for you and your eligible dependents.

Consanguinity: You have no family members (up to fourth degree of consanguinity and second degree of affinity, including spouse) working at the IDB, IDB Invest, or IDB Lab.
Type of contract and duration

•    International staff contract, 36 months initially, renewable upon mutual agreement.

 
What we offer

The IDB group provides benefits that respond to the different needs and moments of an employee's life. These benefits include:

    A competitive compensation package, including an annual base salary expressed on a net-of-tax basis.
    Leaves and vacations: 24 days of paid time off + 8 personal days + sick leave + gender-neutral parental leave.
    Health Insurance: IDB Group provides employees and eligible dependents with a robust medical benefits program that covers medical, dental, vision, preventive care, and prescription drugs.
    Pension plan: defined benefit pension plan that provides financial security and support employees in planning for their future.
    We offer assistance with relocation and visa applications for you and your family when it applies.
    Hybrid and flexible work schedules.
    Health and well-being: Access to our Health Services Center that provides preventive care and health education for employees.
    Development support: We offer tools to boost your professional profile, such as mentoring, 1:1 professional counseling, training and learning opportunities, language classes, mobility options, among others.
    Other perks: Lactation Room, Daycare Center, Gym, Bike Racks, Parking, Spouse Career Program, and others.

Our culture

At the IDB, we work so everyone brings their best and authentic selves to work while finding their purpose. Our people consistently strive for excellence, and we recognize and celebrate the impact of their contributions.

In our efforts to drive innovation, we intentionally include all voices, cultivate a sense of belonging and champion fairness. We welcome individuals from underrepresented groups to join us and share their unique perspectives.

We ensure that individuals with disabilities are provided reasonable accommodations to participate in the job interview process. If you require an accommodation to complete this application, please email us at accommodations@iadb.org.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

We are the Inter-American Development Bank

The main source of development financing for Latin America and the Caribbean
Our Mission is to Improve Lives

Since our creation in 1959, we have been dedicated to improving the quality of life for millions of people in our 26 borrowing member countries across Latin America and the Caribbean.

We provide financial and technical support to national and sub-national governments and other entities in our region. We conduct cutting-edge research and develop innovative solutions to address development challenges both locally and globally.

We work with our non-borrowing member countries and development organizations to channel resources and expertise to Latin America and the Caribbean, promoting development and maximizing the impact of key initiatives.
Six Things to Know About Us
Hands holding together - About IDB - Inter American Development Bank - IDB
We are three entities
Bolivian town landscape - About IDB - Inter American Development Bank - IDB
We are on four continents
Old man smiling - What Works to Improve Government Efficiency - Inter American Development Bank - IDB
Our financial support reached about $23 billion in 2024
Picture full of flags - About IDB - Inter American Development Bank - IDB
We have 48 member countries
Kids in front of a School - About IDB - Inter American Development Bank - IDB
We collaborate with diverse actors
Piece of art - About IDB - Inter American Development Bank - IDB
Art and culture are part of our development agenda
People working together - Institutional Strategy - Inter American Development Bank - IDB
Our Institutional Strategy

Our Institutional Strategy outlines how IDB, IDB Invest, and IDB Lab are supporting the sustainable and inclusive development of Latin America and the Caribbean from 2024 to 2030. It defines our core development objectives, describes our investment priority areas, and explains how we will work to maximize our scale and impact.

This strategy, called IDBStrategy+, aims to help our region achieve its development goals while contributing to solutions for some of the world’s most pressing shared challenges.
Learn more
IDB Group: The Region’s Best Bang for the Buck

We maximize resources for Latin America and the Caribbean – crowding-in private capital and turning every dollar into lasting impact.
Learn more
Our History

Learn about our origin, the leaders that shaped who we are, and how we have supported and served the people of Latin America and the Caribbean.
Learn more
Our Charter and By-Laws

Read about our mission and the rules and regulations that govern our work.
Read more
Our Capital and Funds Under Administration

Learn about how the IDB funds its operations.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT



END ECON DEPT