START JOB DESCRIPTION



The Center for Economic Research (CIE) at ITAM invites applicants for tenure-track/tenured Assistant/Associate/Full Professor positions in any field.

CIE is a research group within the Department of Economics at ITAM committed to scientific excellence and oriented toward the international academic community. Candidates must demonstrate a strong commitment to research and should hold or expect a Ph.D. in economics or a related field by September 2026.

English is the working language of our center. Information about the center can be found at http://cie.itam.mx/en . All candidates should submit a CV, a job market paper, and three letters of reference via econjobmarket.org.

Applications submitted by November 28 will receive full consideration. ASSA-style interviews of successful applicants for tenure-track positions will be conducted by appointment over Zoom and will be followed by an in-person campus visit.

We recognize the importance of diversity and inclusion in supporting our mission to educate students of diverse backgrounds.


END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

ITAM is a private, secular, non-profit Mexican institution of higher education.

Mission



ITAM seeks to contribute to the individual's comprehensive education and to develop a freer, more just, and prosperous society. It also aims to become a community in its fullest sense, an institution of excellence and academic freedom, and a high quality autonomous research center.



Our institution's goal is to prepare and educate men and women that are capable of acting in an informed, rational, responsible, critical way, and committed to creating, managing, and shaping public opinion, institutions, as well as further works. It also intends that these men and women be capable of creating and transmitting knowledge of the highest ethical, scientific, technological, and professional levels, allowing society to become aware of its problems and contributing to their understanding and solutions.

Education Philosophy



ITAM perceives human beings as free and social individuals, engaged in the pursuit of human development and progress, and as individuals essentially devoted to the quest for truth and righteousness.



Hence, education, in general, tends to improve the lives of human beings through the enrichment of their best values, their growth as individuals, the development of their awareness and the increase of their civic capabilities. It also acknowledges their civic duty. As a result, our students become increasingly loyal to Mexico, to its values and traditions, which are understood as collective heritage.


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

 The Center for Economic Research (Centro de Investigación Económica, CIE in short) was established in the spring of 1993 with the intention of developing a center dedicated to scientific research in the field of economics. Its fundamental objectives are to become a leading international research center and to act as a link between ITAM and the international scientific community.

The strategy of the CIE has been to:

    integrate a group of internationally renowned and highly productive scholars,
    identify and provide guidance to undergraduate and graduate students who have strong academic interests,
    establish an active communication channel with the main research groups in the world, through seminars, academic events and exchange programs for faculty members and students.


CIE has full-time members who are engaged in cutting-edge research in their respective fields. Our affiliated members as well as visitors contribute substantially to our intellectual atmosphere. The Economics Seminar, which meets on a weekly basis, receives speakers from top economics departments and research institutions around the world.  

potential co-authors:
-  Andrei Gomberg: Andrei Gomberg’s research (and advising) interests concern theoretical and experimental study of political and legal institutions
- Horacio Larreguy with his experimental work on how information affect voting behavior

END ECON DEPT