START JOB DESCRIPTION

Full Text of JOE Listing:

The Graduate School of Economics at Kobe University invites applications for a full-time, tenure-track or tenured position at the level of Associate Professor or Lecturer. We welcome applications from candidates specialized in any of the following areas:
(1) Applied Econometric Analysis or Institutional Analysis on Advanced Economies;
(2) Applied Economic Theory. Applicants should also be able to teach introductory and intermediate courses in the American economy and related subjects.
The contract is full-time, commencing in April 2026 or October 2026, under exceptional circumstances. The tenure-track period is five years, with a tenure review to be conducted by the end of the fourth year. The tenured position will be offered to a qualified applicant with an excellent academic record and a strong background in publication and teaching experience.

Applicants must meet all of the following conditions.
(1) PhD degree or is expected to get a PhD by the date of appointment;
(2) Excellent record of scholarly research.
(3) The ability to teach undergraduate and graduate-level courses both in Japanese and English. 

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Kobe University, in recognition of its particular mission and responsibility to the people of Japan as a national university, as well as its social, historical and regional roles as an institution of higher education, hereby adopts this Kobe University Charter on Education.
1. Educational Philosophy

In order to contribute to the advancement of learning, happiness of humankind, preservation of the global environment and to world peace, Kobe University establishes as its fundamental educational philosophy the provision of education meeting the highest of international standards at both the undergraduate and graduate levels.
2. Educational Principle

In order to help students realize their individual goals, become responsible members of society, and develop to their full potential, Kobe University adopts as its basic educational principle the provision of education which emphasizes individuality and diversity while respecting the independence and autonomy of each student.
3. Educational Goals

Based on the above Philosophy and Principle, Kobe University, taking full advantage of the open and cosmopolitan environment in which it is located, will provide education in keeping with the following objectives:

    Education of Whole Person: To foster individuals who have high ethical standards, a good balance of intellect, reason and emotion, and rich understanding of culture and humanity.
    Education to Promote Originality: To foster individuals capable of passing on traditional thought and methodology from a critical perspective, while at the same time having ability to creatively set and fulfill new goals.
    Education to Promote International Awareness: To foster individuals who have an appreciation for diverse values, deep understanding of other cultures and excellent communication skills.
    Education to Promote Expertise: To foster individuals who have deep knowledge and ability to fulfill leadership roles in their professional and/or academic fields.

4. Educational Structure

Responsibility for fulfilling the above Educational Philosophy, Principle and Goals will be shared within a university-wide structure.
5. Evaluation

In order to determine the extent to which the above Educational Philosophy, Principle and Goals are being fulfilled, Kobe University will conduct regular assessments and evaluations, and continuously striving for improvement.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

esearch and Courses Offered

One of the longest-standing centers of economics research in Japan, the Faculty of Economics, Kobe University, has the largest number of fields of research and faculty members among the national universities in Kansai area and in Japan.
Fields of Research

The Faculty of Economics covers areas of economics research such as: Theoretical Analysis, Historical Analysis, Statistics and Econometric Analysis, Industrial and Social Policy, Monetary and Public Policy, Comparative Economic Policy, Technological and Environmental Analysis, and International Economic Policy. 
Faculty and Courses Offered

About fifty faculty members provide education in the research areas listed above. In addition to their extensive coverage of a variety of fields, we invite professionals and researchers from government, business circles, private research institutes, and international agencies to offer lectures in order to present examples of how economic theories are applied. For example, the Faculty of Economics invites staff from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide a realistic perspective of how they use economics in their field of activity.

END ECON DEPT