START JOB DESCRIPTION

McMaster University is located on the traditional territories of the Haudenosaunee and Mississauga Nations and within the lands protected by the “Dish With One Spoon” wampum agreement.

Position Description:
The Department of Economics at McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario invites applications for a full-time position at the rank of Assistant or junior Associate Professor commencing July 1, 2026. Note that individuals who have served more than three years at the Associate level are not eligible. The Department has a particular interest in applied microeconomists working in health, labour or public economics.

The Department of Economics at McMaster is a research-intensive academic unit. The appointee will be expected to conduct an independent research program yielding significant peer-reviewed publications, to attract external peer-reviewed research funding, to teach undergraduate and graduate students, and to supervise doctoral students. As a result of a special contribution to the department, the successful candidate will receive a total of $60,000 in addition to standard start-up research funds.

The successful applicant must demonstrate a compelling vision for continuing McMaster’s longstanding strength in the area of applied microeconomics research and graduate training as well as carrying on and enhancing McMaster University’s Strategic Research mission.

The successful applicant will be expected to help sustain the collegial atmosphere within the Department and to help realize the Department’s and the University’s commitment to the goals of equity, diversity, and inclusivity.

Commitment to Inclusive Excellence: Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Statement The diversity of our workforce is at the core of our innovation and creativity and strengthens our research and teaching excellence. In keeping with its Statement on Building an Inclusive Community with a Shared Purpose, McMaster University strives to embody the values of respect, collaboration and diversity, and has a strong commitment to employment equity. The University seeks qualified candidates who share our commitment to equity and inclusion, who will contribute to the diversification of ideas and perspectives, and especially welcomes applications from First Nations, Métis and Inuit peoples, members of racialized communities (“visible minorities”), persons with disabilities, women, and persons who identify as 2SLGBTQ+.

All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and permanent residents will be given priority. To comply with the Government of Canada's reporting requirements, the University is obliged to gather information about applicants' status as either Permanent Residents of Canada or Canadian citizens. All applications must therefore include one of the following statements: “I am a citizen or permanent resident of Canada”; or “I am not a citizen or permanent resident of Canada.” Applicants need not identify their country of origin or other aspects of their current citizenship.

All applicants must complete a brief Diversity Survey, which takes approximately two minutes to complete. All questions are voluntary, with an option to decline to answer. All information collected is confidential and will be used to support efforts to broaden the diversity of the applicant pool and to promote a fair, equitable and inclusive talent acquisition process. The survey will be sent to applicants in a separate communication. Please refer to the Applicant Diversity Survey Statement of Collection for more information. Additional inquiries about the Diversity Survey may be directed to hr.empequity@mcmaster.ca.

How to apply:
Applications should include an application letter, a curriculum vitae, research papers (including a job market paper), a short research summary, evidence of teaching effectiveness (if available), and three confidential letters of reference, guiding referees to comment on your:

• demonstrated scholarly excellence in the area of health, labour or public economics;
• demonstrated ability to teach successfully;
• ability to work in a collaborative environment; and
• contributions to university, professional and/or community service.

Applicants are required to include a statement describing any contributions made or planned in relation to advancing equity, diversity and inclusion or inclusive excellence in teaching, learning, research or service within post-secondary, community-based and other professional settings (2-page maximum). Applications will only be accepted on-line at EconJobMarket, www.econjobmarket.org.

Job applicants requiring accommodation to participate in the hiring process should contact the Office of the Dean of Faculty of Social Sciences at admstsoc@mcmaster.ca to communicate accommodation needs.

The Department will begin reviewing applications on October 1. The position will remain open until it is filled. First-round interviews may begin as early as November 3.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Our Mission

At McMaster, our purpose is the discovery, communication, and preservation of knowledge. In our teaching, research, and scholarship, we are committed to creativity, innovation, and excellence. We value integrity, quality, inclusiveness, and teamwork in everything we do. We inspire critical thinking, personal growth, and a passion for lifelong learning. We serve the social, cultural, and economic needs of our community and our society.

Our Vision

Impact, Ambition, and Transformation through Excellence, Inclusion, and Community: Advancing Human and Societal Health and Well-being.

The vision statement was adopted in 2021 following several months of consultations and discussions across the campus. It captures both the depth of our collective aspirations and desire for impact, as well as our commitment to inclusive excellence and serving the global community in all that we do. In referencing the current positioning statement, the vision statement links McMaster’s historical and continuing strengths and commitments with our intentions and goals for the future.

Inclusive Excellence

We aspire to embed an inclusive approach that intentionally engages and respects a diversity of peoples, perspectives, and ways of knowing, in everything we do.

Engaging Local, National, Indigenous, and Global Communities

We further develop and expand our network of longstanding and respectful partnerships with communities, partners, research collaborators, and supporters for the benefit of all.

Teaching and Learning

We further advance and support innovation in teaching and learning, within and beyond the classroom, and across disciplines and Faculties, to elevate teaching as a professional discipline, and equip our students with the knowledge and skills needed to make a transformative impact on our world.

Operational Excellence

We enable the administrative operations of the University to most effectively support the institutional vision and aspirations of our community of researchers, scholars, teachers, and learners.

Research and Scholarship

We strive to be the go-to place for world-class researchers and collaborators who share our values and commitment to working together across disciplines, sectors, and borders to develop knowledge, tackle global issues, and advance human understanding.

These priorities form the foundational elements of our plan, with each priority becoming a strategic goal with associated objectives, activities, and metrics. It is intended to be a living and evolving document and will serve as McMaster’s agenda and accountability statement for the next three years.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

We invite you to browse our website and discover the many programs we have to offer. There are two undergraduate streams of the Honours BA in Economics (the Honours Specialist option and the Honours stream), along with a number of combined Honours degrees and a Minor in Economics. We offer both an MA and a PhD in Economics as well as an MA in Economic Policy at the graduate level. All of our programs provide students with training in economic theory and quantitative methods. In addition, students are given the opportunity to pursue a wide range of specializations.

Explore the research interests of Department faculty members and their exciting projects by visiting the Department’s research page. A number of Canadian research labs and centres are affiliated with the Department, making it a leading research hub.

The Department of Economics at McMaster University has faculty members with expertise in econometrics, experimental economics, environmental economics, health economics, international economics, labour economics, macroeconomics, microeconomics, population economics, and public economics. Most of their research is applied to policy issues and utilizes advanced quantitative techniques.

In recognition of the quality and impact of their research, our faculty members have won numerous awards and honours.

potential co-authors:
- Katherine Cuff with her interest in inequality and redistriution, where we can explore how other media types affect redistribution attitudes

potential department groups:
- Mestelman & Muller McMaster Decision Science Laboratory (McDSL)to explore the mechanisms of changes in attitudes with media exposure

END ECON DEPT