START JOB DESCRIPTION



The Department of Economics at the School of Law and Economics at the University of Mannheim invites applications to fill the positions of

· Assistant Professor of Microeconomics (W1)

· Assistant Professor of Microeconomic Theory (W1)

The Department seeks outstanding candidates with a research focus in industrial organization (theoretical and empirical), financial economics, or microeconomic theory. A close cooperation with researchers working in the department is expected. Teaching responsibilities include an appropriate participation in the education of students of economics. Participation in the training of doctoral students within the Mannheim Center for Doctoral Studies in Economics is expected.

The holder of the position shall acquire additional qualifications for the position of a full university professor in accordance with the catalogue of duties as laid down in the service regulations and the subject-specific requirements associated with the position by independently performing research and teaching duties in his/her field of specialization.

The conditions for an appointment are stipulated in section § 51 (2) and (3) of the Act on Higher Education of the Land of Baden-Württemberg (LHG). In addition to a completed university degree and proof of an outstanding doctorate, pedagogical aptitude and the ability to assume the position of assistant professor based on additional academic achievements are expected. If the general conditions are met, the position is filled for a period of up to six years within the framework of a civil service contract. If it can be expected that the holder of the assistant professorship will complete the final evaluation on a particularly outstanding level, a simplified recruiting procedure for the transfer to a tenured professorship in accordance with section 48 (1) 6 LHG will be sought, subject to budgetary approval.

The University of Mannheim is committed to increasing the number of women in research and teaching and thus encourages women with adequate qualifications to apply. Applications of equally qualified disabled candidates are given preferential consideration.

CONTACT: Thomas Troeger, Department of Economics, University of Mannheim, D-68131 Mannheim, Department website: http://www.vwl.uni-mannheim.de

Applications are requested online via EconJobMarket.org only until 9 November 2025. E-mail address for inquiries is jobmkt@uni-mannheim.de. If in individual cases an electronic application should be impossible, please send your documents to Prof. Thomas Troeger, Head of the Department of Economics at the University of Mannheim, D-68131 Mannheim.

Please find detailed information on your rights regarding the collection of personal data according to article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation (DSGVO) on the University of Mannheim website (https://www.uni-mannheim.de/en/about/working-at-the-university-of-mannheim/employment-opportunities/data-protection-during-the-job-application-process/). If you apply by e-mail, please note that protection of confidential data cannot be guaranteed as unauthorized third parties could gain access to unencrypted e-mails during transmission.


END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

 A Leading Institution in the Economic and Social Sciences

For generations, the University of Mannheim has been preparing students to take on leadership roles in business, academia, and society. One of the university’s strengths in this task is its profile, which is characterized by the economic and social sciences. It is in these fields that the University of Mannheim has repeatedly been ranked as one of the top 20 European research universities.

Staff members at six schools and departments teach and carry out research in Business Administration, Economics, the Humanities, Social Sciences, Law, and Business Informatics and Mathematics.

Global Network
Researchers at the university collaborate with numerous national and international partners. The university has a particularly close relationship with the ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research, one of the leading economic research institutes in Germany, the GESIS Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences, and the Institut für Deutsche Sprache (IDS). The Mannheim Centre for European Social Research (MZES) is the largest research institution for Social Sciences at a university in Germany, and is one of the leading institutions of its kind on the international stage.

International Campus
The campus surrounding Mannheim’s baroque palace is a place where bright minds from across the globe come together to learn, discuss, research, and prepare to make their mark on the world. Every fifth student at the university comes from abroad to pursue their bachelor’s or master’s degree, or doctorate in Mannheim. Students of the Mannheim Business School also come from overseas to obtain a management qualification at one of the top 25 MBA providers in the world.

Research that Benefits Society
The University of Mannheim is known for its practical orientation and its knowledge transfer with society. Numerous researchers are members of national or international bodies, or work at institutes or associations that have an advisory role in business, society, and politics. Students are also active in society. The many organizations and associations on campus give them the chance to help make the world a better place.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

 Excellent. International. Individual.

Excellence in research and teaching, an international mindset, and individual growth: Welcome to Economics at Mannheim! Our department is recognized as one of Europe’s premier institutions in its field, consistently confirmed by top rankings such as the CHE University Ranking. Around 50 professors, staff members, and students from over 80 countries work and study together—covering fields from microeconomics to econometrics. Join an inspiring community that offers outstanding career opportunities and supports your personal developmen

END ECON DEPT