START JOB DESCRIPTION

The Department of Economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in Cambridge, Massachusetts has openings at the junior tenure-track faculty level beginning July 1, 2026, or as soon thereafter as possible. No Economics field constraints. A PhD in Economics or a closely related field is required by the start of employment, and with strong recommendations from graduate school faculty and established potential in research and teaching. Faculty responsibilities include teaching courses in Economics and related topics (1 subject per term the first year and 1.25 subjects per term thereafter); departmental committee work; and research in Economics and related topics. Applications must be received by November 7, 2025. Virtual interviews will take place the week of December 15, 2025.

The Department of Economics seeks candidates of the highest ability with the brightest futures, representing the diverse tapestry of the United States and our global community. We value unique perspectives and believe when we come together in the spirit of education, innovation, and discovery, our varied views and experiences build a stronger more inclusive and enriching environment.

MIT is an equal opportunity employer. We value diversity and strongly encourage applications from individuals from all identities and backgrounds. All qualified applicants will receive equitable consideration for employment based on their experience and qualifications, and will not be discriminated against on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, pregnancy, religion, disability, age, genetic information, veteran status, or national or ethnic origin. See MIT's full policy on nondiscrimination. Know your rights. Employment is contingent upon the completion of a satisfactory background check, including verifying any finding of misconduct (or pending investigation) from prior employers.

Please submit your CV, job market paper, and three letters of recommendation. Letters of recommendation must be received by the November 7th deadline for full consideration.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION


Mission Statement


The mission of MIT is to advance knowledge and educate students in science, technology, and other areas of scholarship that will best serve the nation and the world in the 21st century.

The Institute is committed to generating, disseminating, and preserving knowledge, and to working with others to bring this knowledge to bear on the world’s great challenges. MIT is dedicated to providing its students with an education that combines rigorous academic study and the excitement of discovery with the support and intellectual stimulation of a diverse campus community. We seek to develop in each member of the MIT community the ability and passion to work wisely, creatively, and effectively for the betterment of humankind.


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

For over a century, MIT Economics has played a leading role in economics education, research, and public service. With a commitment to the advancement of groundbreaking research, our program draws new generations of students to the discipline with courses that are at the vanguard of economic knowledge.

We equip students in our undergraduate program with the essential skills for a wide variety of jobs, while our graduate training has set the standard for other leading institutions around the country. Our award-winning faculty and students are making concrete contributions to the world's most pressing challenges, providing the scientific evidence decision-makers need to make strategic and effective policy decisions.
Learn more about our history
Around the Institute

The department's work is strengthened by the strategic partnerships we have spent decades fostering across the Institute. MIT’s excellence in engineering, science, and management has created valuable educational and research opportunities for our faculty and students, while we have in turn lent our expertise to research and education throughout the Institute. Key MIT partnerships include:

    MIT Sloan School of Management — supporting areas of applied economics and finance fields with joint formal seminars in applied microeconomics
    Departments of Political Science and Urban Studies and Planning — supporting areas of political economics, real estate markets income and wealth distribution
    The MIT Energy Initiative (MITEI) and the Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research (CEEPR) — supporting interdisciplinary investigation into  economic, regulatory, and technological issues related to energy and the environment

END ECON DEPT