START JOB DESCRIPTION



The Monash Department of Economics invites expressions of interest from outstanding scholars in any field of economics for tenure-track Lecturer or Senior Lecturer positions. These ranks are comparable to the early and advanced stages of Assistant Professor in the U.S. system. Multiple positions are available. Compensation packages will be internationally competitive. The Department features excellent working conditions, including ample funding, time, and travel in support of our research and impact objectives.

Monash Business School has enormous resources and capabilities extending to all Economics and Business related disciplines. In addition to the Economics Department, Monash hosts the Department of Econometrics and Business Statistics, the Centre for Health Economics, and the Centre for Development Economics and Sustainability, and SoDaLabs.

Economics at Monash is placed among the top 50 groups in the world according to a range of widely recognised rankings and metrics (ARWU: 41, QS: 39, Tilburg: 16-42, RePEc: 38, USNews: 17). In the latest Australian research assessment, Monash received the top rating for economics in all categories.

Monash is located in metropolitan Melbourne, a vibrant multi-cultural city of 5 million people. Melbourne is consistently rated by The Economist as among the world's most liveable cities.

Direct enquiries to: arthur.campbell@monash.edu, cc: elena.shcherbak@monash.edu

For more information about Monash Economics, https://www.monash.edu/business/economics


END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Values and vision
Monash University Values

Monash University is committed to the highest quality in teaching, learning, research, and a wide range of professional and community activities. The university believes in the value of free and rational inquiry, and in the pursuit of knowledge as a key to understanding and improvement of the human condition. Monash students and its graduates are spirited and ready to take the initiative – they are self-reliant, egalitarian, contemporary and international in perspective.
Faculty Values

The Faculty of Medicine Nursing and Health Sciences highlights:

    its expectation of high standards of ethical behaviour from its staff and students, and
    the importance of embracing the principles of equity, egalitarianism and diversity.

Faculty Vision

The Faculty is dedicated to the pursuit of excellence and innovation in research and teaching. It aspires to leadership in all areas of research activity, and advocacy for policy – locally, nationally and internationally – to improve health and social outcomes and health inequalities.

The Faculty is committed to maintaining Monash University as a leading international medical research university, recognised for the breadth and depth of its research, for its opportunities and commitment to postgraduate training, and as a thriving biotechnology hub.

The Faculty is committed to the translation of our biomedical and public health research to health outcomes in partnership with our affiliated health care facilities and Medical Research Institutes.

The Faculty is also committed to the internationalisation of research and teaching scholarship, and to knowledge generation, management and dissemination, producing graduates that embody the values of the Faculty and the University.

The Faculty supports a management style that promotes autonomy and accountability.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

All researchers at the Department of Economics at Monash University are members of one of the following research groups:

    Behavioural, Experimental and Theory group (BET)
    Development, History, and Political Economy group (DeHiPE)
    Health, Enviro, Ed, Labour, Public group (HEELP)
    Industrial Organisation and Applied Theory group (IOAT)
    Macro, International and Growth (MIG)

Research collaborations

The most pressing and complicated issues our world faces are multi-faceted and cannot be addressed in isolation. Monash economics is committed to collaborating with researchers from other departments and centres within the Monash Business School, as well as those from other Monash Faculties and International institutions. By encouraging and taking this multidisciplinary approach, we are able to tackle complex research questions in a comprehensive manner.

To learn more about the collaborative efforts between the Department of Economics and the following units, please visit the links below:

    Centre for Development Economics and Sustainability (CDES)
    Centre for Health Economics (CHE)
    Monash Laboratory for Experimental Economics (MonLEE)
    Monash Sustainable Development Institute (MSDI)
    South-Asia Research Network (SARN)

Development, History, and Political Economy group (DeHiPE)

Members of the Development, History, and Political Economy group (DeHiPE) are engaged in a broad range of research activities. Researchers in the group use a range of tools to conduct their research. These include field based research (primary surveys and field experiments) and secondary data (survey data, administrative data and geo-spatial data, historical data). Their research investigates the historic roots of modern day economic differences and the role of policies, politics, and market and behavioral constraints in the process of economic development, past and present. Their research covers countries across all parts of the world.

There is substantial common ground in research interests between the DGH group and other research groups in the department. The DeHiPE group actively contributes to and participates in several seminar series in the department.

Group members co-organise the All-Melbourne Economic History (AMEH) reading group, together with colleagues from Melbourne University.

Faculty members are also active in co-organising international conferences and workshops, and hold important roles on editorial boards.

Potential co-authors:
- Sascha Becker: with his work on political econoy and text as data
- Lata Gangadharan with her work on experimental where my cultual values might help
- Rigissa Megalokonomou and Jaai Parasnis for their gender gaps work

END ECON DEPT