START JOB DESCRIPTION

The School of Liberal Arts and Sciences (SLAS) at Musashi University, established in April 2022, invites applications for a fixed-term visiting assistant professor/instructor position in Economics. The successful candidate will play a central role in SLAS’s Parallel Degree Programme (PDP) in partnership with the University of London (UoL), particularly through teaching contributions to the International Foundation Program (IFP) and BSc in Economics and Management. We welcome applications from scholars with a strong research agenda and publication record in any field of economics, as well as from those who have demonstrated excellence in teaching undergraduate economics courses in English.

[Recruitment background]
Musashi University sees the fostering of global citizens as one of its missions, in keeping with the foundational principles of the university as well as the objectives of its mid-term development plan, and as a part of those efforts is committed to expanding the diversity of its faculty. The university is an equal opportunities employer, and all applications will be considered solely based on professional accomplishments and personal merit.

仕事内容・職務内容

[Job details]
Teaching and administrative responsibilities:
1. Teaching undergraduate courses in the field of economics and related areas
2. Contributing to the administration and curriculum development of the SLAS
3. Duties pertaining to university entrance examinations and committees
4. Academic supervision and pastoral care of students

Faculty members are expected to teach five "koma" per semester, with one "koma" being a 105-minute class meeting per week. The successful candidate will be responsible for one of the following three combinations of courses:
[Applied Econometrics]
IFP Pure Mathematics*
Introduction to Econometrics
Applied Econometrics

[Microeconomics]
IFP Economics*
BSc Managerial Economics*
Intermediate Microeconomics

[Macroeconomics]
IFP Mathematics and Statistics*
Introduction to Economics
Intermediate Macroeconomics

※The final allocation of courses may be adjusted depending on the candidate’s expertise.

*Courses marked with an asterisk (*) are offered as part of the Parallel Degree Programme (PDP) with the University of London (UoL). For further details, please refer to:
•Musashi University PDP (Japanese): https://www.musashi.ac.jp/manabi/parallel_degree_programme/gaiyou.html
•University of London BSc Economics and Management
https://www.london.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/bsc-economics-management
University of London International Foundation Programme
https://www.london.ac.uk/study/courses/undergraduate/international-foundation-programme


The School of Liberal Arts and Sciences (SLAS) at Musashi University, established in April 2022, invites applications for a fixed-term visiting assistant professor/instructor position in Economics. The successful candidate will play a central role in SLAS’s Parallel Degree Programme (PDP) in partnership with the University of London (UoL), particularly through teaching contributions to the International Foundation Program (IFP) and BSc in Economics and Management. We welcome applications from scholars with a strong research agenda and publication record in any field of economics, as well as from those who have demonstrated excellence in teaching undergraduate economics courses in English.

Responsibilities:
1. Teaching undergraduate courses in the field of economics and related areas
2. Contributing to the administration and curriculum development of the SLAS
3. Duties pertaining to university entrance examinations and committees
4. Academic supervision and pastoral care of students

Qualifications
(1) A completed Ph.D. in Economics or a closely related field is required at the time of appointment.
(2) Applicants must have the ability to effectively teach courses in English.
(3) A high level of Japanese proficiency is preferred, although not required.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Based on the three ideals embedded in its founding principles, Musashi University trains students in line with its basic educational objectives of Independence, Dialogue, and Practice, through specialized education in each faculty and general education across the University. More specifically, these three basic educational objectives call for the University to educate students who have the ability to investigate independently, think for themselves, and to engage in open and honest dialogue with respect for others, as well as the vitality needed to act to turn knowledge into practice in their own immediate surroundings while thinking globally, and to promote cultural exchange and practical cooperation around the world. Through this process, the university stresses the building of knowledge, the application of this knowledge to social endeavors, and reflection upon this practical application resulting in expanded awareness, that is, the fusion of knowledge and practice.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

Educational and research objectives of each faculty and graduate school
Faculty of Economics
Based on the University’s primary educational goals, the Faculty of Economics has established its educational and research objectives. These are as follows: (1) teaching theory and applications concerning economics and society; (2) fostering independent thinking and appropriate decision-making and execution skills; (3) and (the human-resources development goal of) educating capable professionals motivated to find solutions to the issues they will face in the contemporary economy and society. 

END ECON DEPT