START JOB DESCRIPTION

Position: Assistant (tenure track), Associate or Full Professor in Economics

Field(s) of specialization: Environmental and Energy Economics, with complementary work in applied micro

Starting date: September 1st, 2026

Institution: Nova School of Business and Economics (Universidade Nova de Lisboa)

Location: Lisbon, Portugal

Position description: Nova School of Business and Economics (Nova SBE), a triple-accredited institution (AACSB, EQUIS and AMBA), announces the opening of positions at the Assistant, Association or Full (tenure track) Professor level in Economics, effective September 1, 2026. Applicants should have, or be about to complete, a Ph.D. degree in Economics or a related discipline and a strong research record, including a solid methods background and an interest in applied work speaking to different fields. Compensation and teaching load is competitive with top universities in Europe.

School description: Nova SBE offers programs in management, economics, and finance at the undergraduate, master, MBA, and doctorate levels. The school provides an international research environment and consistently ranks among the top business schools in Europe. To support the development of a research-oriented career, Nova SBE provides a very balanced teaching workload, compensation competitive with other business schools in Europe, and research-supporting incentives. English is the working language of the school and knowledge of Portuguese is not a requirement. The Lisbon area offers an outstanding combination of relatively low cost of living, exceptional lifestyle, and an extensive set of cultural and leisure opportunities.

Application details: School representatives will schedule a set of online interviews in mid December. The application deadline is November 30, 2025, and applications will be accepted online exclusively through EconJobMarket platform.
Applications should include a cover letter, CV, research papers and three recommendation letters.

General details about working at NovaSBE to be found:

JOIN OUR SCHOOL

Additional information can be obtained from:

Faculty Affairs Department (faculty.affairs@novasbe.pt)

Info-EUREXESS

The conditions of employment comply with the terms of Regulation no 409/2018 of 20 June, and the Labour Code, approved by Law no 7/2009 of 12 February, with subsequent amendments ("Labour Code"). Salary is subject to training and experience and may vary depending on the category (Assistant, Associate or Full) and career stage and based on a full-time contract of 35 hours. Favourable tax agreements may apply to non-Portuguese applicants. NovaSBE has attractive employment conditions, which include a holiday and Christmas allowance and a generous number of vacation days.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION



NOVA University of Lisbon, as a public higher education institution, has the mission of serving society at local, regional and global levels, by advancing and disseminating knowledge and understanding between cultures, societies and people, through excellent teaching and research and by providing services based on a strong sense of community and with the following components:

Teaching with an international profile, with an emphasis on second and third cycles, but based on solid first cycles, focused on its students and equipping them with rigorous knowledge, creativity, critical thinking and a sense of citizenship and justice that will enable them to achieve professional success and leadership;
Collaborative, responsible and internationally relevant research, prioritizing interdisciplinary areas and including research aimed at solving problems that affect society;
Providing services that promote solidarity and sustainable development, in the health, economic, technological, cultural and social areas, based in the Lisbon region and committed at national and international level, paying particular attention to Portuguese-speaking countries;
A broad base of interinstitutional participation, focused on the integration of different scientific cultures, with a view to creating innovative synergies for teaching and research.

More Information in Management and Legislation Documents
Values

NOVA University Lisbon shares, among others, the following values:

    Freedom of opinion and expression and the promotion of pluralism;
    Equal treatment and opportunities for all persons, regardless of their ancestry, nationality, gender, race, language, ethnic origin, territory of origin, religion or belief, disability, age, sexual orientation, political or ideological beliefs, education, economic situation or social condition;
    The pursuit of excellence in all its areas of activity;
    Honesty, integrity and responsibility in all actions;
    Independence from interests unrelated to the pursuit of its objectives;
    The recognition and reward of merit;
    The commitment to public service, as part of its public nature;
    The commitment to valuing, at the various levels, all those who carry out their activity in institution.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

At Nova SBE, we leave no student behind and firmly believe that each individual has the potential to make a difference and contribute positively to society through their purpose. 

Our commitment is to be a community dedicated to fostering talent and knowledge with a global impact. 

Beyond our position in international rankings, we are a school that invests in rigorous academic research with social, economic, and political relevance. 

With an outstanding faculty, strategic partnerships with international schools, and renowned companies, we continue to prepare leaders capable of turning challenges into opportunities and contributing to a fairer and more prosperous world, within an inclusive environment that celebrates diverse perspectives.

Nova SBE unites its researchers in a single Research Unit with a cross-disciplinary orientation, leveraging the diversity of research taking place. Management research comprises leadership, strategy, marketing, consumer behaviour, and entrepreneurship and innovation. Economics includes public policy with micro (education, healthcare, development, environment, natural resources) and macro (unemployment, fiscal policy, and economic growth) dimensions. Finance includes corporate finance, institutional investment, mutual funds, theoretical and empirical models of asset pricing, energy markets, risk management, and sustainable finance.

potential co-authors:
- Pedro Portugal with Labor market sorting, social connections, and peer effects as my research ties in together with him

END ECON DEPT