START JOB DESCRIPTION

The Department of Economics at The Pennsylvania State University at University Park, PA, USA, invites applications for a full-time tenure-track position at the rank of Assistant Professor of Economics. We will consider highly qualified scholars from all fields of economics.

In this role, we expect the Assistant Professor of Economics to pursue an active research program, perform undergraduate teaching, help mentor graduate students, and engage in professional service.  We expect the Assistant Professor to pursue high-quality scholarly research and have a high level of teaching competence.

A Ph.D. in Economics or a related field is required by the appointment date.

Candidates for Assistant Professor of Economics must have demonstrated ability as a researcher, scholar, and teacher in a relevant field and have evidence of growth in scholarly achievement. Duties will involve a combination of teaching, research, and service, based on the candidate’s qualifications.

Interested candidates must submit an online application at Penn State’s Job Posting Board and upload the following application materials electronically: a letter of interest, CV or resume, and a list of three references with contact information. Interested candidates must also complete an application at Econ Jobs Market to be considered. Inquiries may be directed to the search coordinator, Michelle Young, at muu53@psu.edu.

Review of applications will begin immediately and continue until the position is filled. 

Visit our website at https://econ.la.psu.edu/ for more information on the Department of Economics at Penn State.

BACKGROUND CHECKS/CLEARANCES
Employment with the University will require successful completion of background check(s) in accordance with University policies.

BENEFITS
Penn State provides a competitive benefits package for full-time employees designed to support both personal and professional wellbeing. In addition to comprehensive medical, dental, and vision coverage, employees enjoy robust retirement plans. One of the standout benefits is the generous 75% tuition discount, available to employees as well as eligible spouses and children.

For more detailed information, please visit our Benefits Page.

CAMPUS SECURITY CRIME STATISTICS 

Pursuant to the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act and the Pennsylvania Act of 1988, Penn State publishes a combined Annual Security and Annual Fire Safety Report (ASR). The ASR includes crime statistics and institutional policies concerning campus security, such as those concerning alcohol and drug use, crime prevention, the reporting of crimes, sexual assault, and other matters. The ASR is available for review here.

EEO IS THE LAW

Penn State is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to providing employment opportunities to all qualified applicants without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability or protected veteran status. If you are unable to use our online application process due to an impairment or disability, please contact 814-865-1473.

 
The Pennsylvania State University is committed to and accountable for advancing equity, respect, and belonging. We embrace individual uniqueness, as well as a culture of belonging that supports equity initiatives, leverages the educational and institutional benefits of inclusion in society, and provides opportunities for engagement intended to help all members of the community thrive.  We value belonging as a core strength and an essential element of the university’s teaching, research, and service mission.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Our instructional mission includes undergraduate, graduate, professional, continuing, and extension education offered through both resident instruction and distance learning. Our educational programs are enriched by the talent, knowledge, diversity, creativity, and teaching and research acumen of our faculty, students, and staff.

Our discovery-oriented, collaborative, and interdisciplinary research and scholarship promote human and economic development, global understanding, and advancement in professional practice through the expansion of knowledge and its applications in the natural and applied sciences, social and behavioral sciences, engineering, technology, arts and humanities, and myriad professions.

As Pennsylvania’s land-grant university, we provide unparalleled access to education and public service to support the citizens of the Commonwealth and beyond. We engage in collaborative activities with private sector, educational, and governmental partners worldwide to generate, integrate, apply, and disseminate knowledge that is valuable to society. 

The Penn State Values should guide our actions and decisions as members of
the Penn State community:

    Integrity: We act with integrity and honesty in accordance with the highest academic, professional, and ethical standards.
    Respect: We respect and honor the dignity of each person, embrace civil discourse, and foster a diverse and inclusive community.
    Responsibility: We act responsibly, and we are accountable for our decisions, actions, and their consequences.
    Discovery: We seek and create new knowledge and understanding, and foster creativity and innovation, for the benefit of our communities, society, and the environment.
    Excellence: We strive for excellence in all our endeavors as individuals, an institution, and a leader in higher education.
    Community: We work together for the betterment of our University, the communities we serve, and the world.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

Penn State’s Economics Department is dedicated to excellence in research and teaching. Our mission is to conduct cutting-edge research in economics and to teach students at the undergraduate and graduate level the methodology and ideas of modern economics, with the goal of training the next generation of professional economists, for academia, the government, and the private sector. 

The development group studies the experiences of developing countries and the process of development from many perspectives. Research topics include the impact of globalization, contracting issues, credit market imperfections, human capital accumulation, state capacity, and regulation in developing economies.

People I could work with:
- Ewout Verriest with his work on labor economics and intra-household barganing matches my gender economic interest

END ECON DEPT