START JOB DESCRIPTION

We invite applications for faculty appointments at the tenure-track level (Assistant Professor) to begin September 2026, in all areas of Economics and Finance. Applicants should hold a Ph.D. (or should be near completion of their dissertation) and should have a demonstrated potential for research excellence. Preference will be given to applicants who show a strong potential to contribute creatively to our research and educational programs at all levels. The Department, an academic unit of the Barcelona School of Economics, provides the teaching for four undergraduate degrees, various M.Sc. programs, and a Ph.D. program. More information at: https://www.upf.edu/en/web/econ/tenure-track-positions

Applicants should provide a curriculum vitae, submit a copy of their job market paper and relevant work, provide (at least) three letters of recommendation, the list of courses taken, and an (optional) cover letter.

The deadline to be considered for these positions is November 2nd , 2025. We will hold online interviews around the EEA Job Market, between December 15- 17, 2025. (NOTE: we are NOT planning to hold interviews during the ASSA meetings.). If you have any questions, please contact the recruiting committee at recruiting.econ@upf.edu.


END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

To train, by means of a rigorous, innovative and personalized educational model, people with a solid scientific and cultural background, general skills that can be adapted to the changes and challenges of society, and the specific skills they need to successfully carry out their life projects.

pipe

To become a prominent research university.
We must be leaders in scientific discovery and innovation and achieve international leadership in our areas of expertise.

pipe

To promote innovation and social transformation.
We must transcend the institution’s walls to generate synergies with society in order to contribute to social welfare and create value.

pipe

To promote the commitment to culture.
We must become a ‘think tank’ – that is, a forum for debate, discussion and reflection at the service of culture – which offers tools for deciphering the contemporary world while actively engaging with it.
Vision

A leading research university, dedicated to public service
which is positioned as one of the most internationally renowned higher education institutions in Europe, allowing it to draw the most talented and committed students and faculty.

pipe

A flexible, effective and personalized university,
that works with efficiency, clarity, rigour and immediacy and is able to adapt to the context and needs of its community in order to effectively achieve the desired results without ever losing sight of its commitment to society.

pipe

A financially sustainable, public university,
with sufficient public funding, as well as other funding sources generated by the University’s own activity.

pipe

An urban university, focused on the challenges
facing Barcelona and its surroundings,
which takes advantage of the modernity and creativity available in a city open to the world as a source of inspiration to influence the university’s transformation.
Values

Beyond the production and transmission of knowledge, we wish to associate our identity with a set of essential values that allow us to improve as people and to establish ourselves as a distinct, ethics-driven community in the increasingly global context of higher education institutions.

pipe

Pluralism
To integrate the diversity of viewpoints and ideologies and to respect collegiality, promoting respect and collaboration among all groups and seeking common grounds to promote participatory decision-making.

pipe

Autonomy
So that, based on the recognition of our own identity as a university, we can have the organizational, financial and regulatory capacity we need to achieve our goals in the best possible way.

pipe

Dynamism
To be alert to the world around us, play an active role in it and at the same time know how to swiftly adapt and respond to both the changes that occur and the new needs arising from them.

pipe

Commitment
To become active agents and drivers of change and innovation in society and to thereby contribute, with creativity, critical thinking, honesty, proactiveness and academic freedom, to finding solutions for the problems and potential conflicts affecting our community and society as a whole.

pipe

Fairness
To ensure equal opportunity and conditions, to combat inequalities and discrimination on grounds of gender, social class, ethnic or racial origin, sexual orientation or disabilities, as well as to train professionals and citizens who go on to transfer these values to the members of their personal and professional circles.

pipe

Rigour
From both an academic and human point of view, to strive, with the necessary self-discipline and leveraging our full potential, to be a leader in both education and research.

pipe

Accountability
To establish a direct relationship with the institutions and groups to which we are accountable and offer them transparent explanations of the goals we pursue and the results we achieve, with the necessary openness to take in their assessments.


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

The UPF Department of Economics and Business is research oriented and encourages its members to publish in the leading journals. This policy has been successful and the Department consistently appears at the top of the publication rankings in Europe.

Apart from having the required infrastructure to develop top quality research, several factors have been instrumental to this productivity.

First, it has recruited top researchers with a consistent research agenda and an international perspective.

Second, the success of the Ph.D. programme - which has been recognised by the European Commission as a "Programme of Excellence" and is part of the European Doctoral Programme - has been particularly stimulating in promoting original high quality research.

Third, the Department seminars have played a key role in promoting interaction at the international level.

Finally, the Department has actively developed contacts with other leading institutions and is part of several European networks in the areas of Macroeconomics, Economics of Health, Economic Theory, Experimental Economics, Finance and I.O. In particular, with the financial backing of the Catalan government, The Department together with Institut d’Anàlisi Econòmica (CSIC) and the Department of Economics at Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (UAB) have established the Barcelona School of Economics (BSE), one of the top world research centres.

People I could work with:
- Camps, Enriqueta with her work on gender gaps in a historical perspective
- Reynal-Querol, Marta with her work on development and polarization

END ECON DEPT