START JOB DESCRIPTION

School of Economics based at UQ’s Faculty of Business, Economics and Law (BEL)

    Up to 2 full-time (100%), permanent positions available

    Position can be offered at Academic Level B or C:

    Academic level B base salary will be in the range AUD$114,824 - $136,048 + 17% Superannuation

    Academic level C base salary will be in the range AUD$140,293 - $161,518 + 17% Superannuation

    Based at our St Lucia Campus

About This Opportunity

Play a key role in educating future generations and creating an exceptional student experience as a Lecturer (Level B) or Senior Lecturer (Level C). We have two positions available, where you can contribute to the development of new programs and course material for UQ’s School of Economics, and focus your efforts on growing your profile in research, teaching and service and engagement.

As a teaching and research academic at Level B or C, you’ll be part of a vibrant, internationally recognised community at UQ. You will be committed to teaching excellence and you will aspire to achieve international recognition in your field of research. Whether you're early in your academic journey or looking to take the next step, this is your opportunity to build a global research profile and contribute to innovative teaching in one of Australia’s leading economics schools.

For US applicants, please note that Australian universities use British terminology, so a Lecturer is equivalent to an Assistant Professor in the US, while a Senior Lecturer is a more advanced role.

Key responsibilities at Academic level B (Lecturer) will include:

Teaching:

    Contribute to the development of new programs and course material in the area of focus, by consulting with program advisors and stakeholders, ensuring courses are engaging, relevant and contemporary.
    Teach across different settings and actively contribute towards educational practice and innovative curriculum design including online learning and alternative teaching methods.
    Coordinate courses, prepare and deliver lectures and tutorials, and undertake assessment and marking for undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
    Maintain and improve the quality of courses as measured through evaluation instruments to meet industry and educational standards.
    Provide high quality service to students, including academic counselling and advice.
    Understand and apply University Rules relevant to teaching and learning practice.

Research:

    Develop a record of publications in world leading or internationally excellent journals, within any field of Economics or Econometrics, and with a preference in Applied Economics.
    Work with colleagues and postgraduates in the development and conduct of joint research projects and applications for competitive research funding support.
    Contribute to applications for external research funding, which includes actively seeking, obtaining and managing research funding.
    Present at key domestic and international conferences, as well as at other key universities.

Supervision and Researcher Development:

    Contribute to the supervision of Masters, Honours and Higher Degree by Research students.
    Recruitment, selection and onboarding of appropriately qualified employees in accordance with University policy and procedures.
    Working to promptly resolve conflict and grievances when they arise in accordance with University policy and procedures.

Citizenship and Service:

    Actively develop partnerships by fostering relationships with colleagues, industry, government departments, professional bodies and the wider community.
    Shows leadership of self and others through mentoring and collaboration.
    Efficiently manage allocated internal service roles and processes, including participation in decision-making and service on relevant committees.
    Effectively perform a range of administrative functions as required.
    Provide support to other academic positions as needed and during absences.
    Consistently demonstrates the UQ values.

Additional to the above, Academic level C (Senior Lecturer) will also include:

Teaching:

    Build and maintain internal and external education collaborations and undertake/initiates professional learning in teaching.
    Lead programs, disciplines, plans, courses and/or student cohorts.

Research:

    Contribute to the development of, or the delivery of partnerships with research end users, or external collaborations resulting in quality outputs.
    Successfully build teams and participate in discipline service, including service on editorial boards.

Supervision and Researcher Development:

    Establish a track record of achievements in supervision outcomes.
    Demonstrate and lead others in the responsible conduct of research.
    Demonstrate effective development of supervisee capabilities and skills and in the management of researcher development.
    Show leadership in facilitating engagement opportunities for supervisees.

Citizenship and Service:

    Consolidate an established record in internal and external service, and make appropriate leadership contributions.

This is a teaching and research position. Further information can be found by viewing UQ’s Criteria for Academic Performance and the appointment information booklet.
About UQ

As part of the UQ community, you will have the opportunity to work alongside the brightest minds, who have joined us from all over the world, and within an environment where interdisciplinary collaborations are encouraged.

At the core of our teaching remains our students, and their experience with us sets a foundation for success far beyond graduation. UQ has made a commitment to making education opportunities available for all Queenslanders, regardless of personal, financial, or geographical barriers.

As part of our commitment to excellence in research and professional practice in academic contexts, we are proud to provide our staff with access to world-class facilities and equipment, grant writing support, greater research funding opportunities, and other forms of staff support and development.

The greater benefits of joining the UQ community are broad: from being part of a Group of Eight university, to recognition of prior service with other Australian universities, up to 26 weeks of paid parental leave, 17.5% annual leave loading, flexible working arrangements including hybrid on site/WFH options and flexible start/finish times, and genuine career progression opportunities via the academic promotions process.
About You

For Appointment at Level B (Lecturer):

Applicants should possess a PhD in Economics or a directly relevant field by the time they commence. Additionally, you will demonstrate:

    A growing profile in teaching and research in the discipline area.
    Evidence of a current and active program of research, expected to lead to publications in world leading and internationally excellent journals, and a pipeline of research-in-progress targeting world leading and internationally excellent journals in any field of Economics or Econometrics, and preferably in Applied Economics.
    Evidence of the ability to provide a high level of quality teaching at undergraduate, honours and postgraduate level across a variety of settings, including small and large groups.
    Ability to coordinate courses and contribute to the development and continuous innovation of new programs, curriculum design and course material in the discipline area.
    Evidence of the ability to supervise Honours and Research Higher Degree students to successful completion.
    Evidence of successfully seeking, or intending to seek, obtain and manage external research funding.
    Evidence of ability to contribute to internal and external service activities.

For Appointment at Level C (Senior Lecturer):

Applicants should possess a PhD in Economics or a directly relevant field. Additionally, you will demonstrate:

    An established profile in teaching and research in the discipline area.
    Evidence of a current and active program of research, with a demonstrable and significant track record of publications in world leading and internationally excellent journals, and a pipeline of research-in-progress targeting world leading and internationally excellent journals in any field of Economics or Econometrics, and preferably in Applied Economics.
    A strong record of successfully seeking, obtaining and managing external research funding.
    Evidence of a high level of quality teaching at undergraduate, honours and postgraduate level across a variety of settings, including small and large groups.
    A strong track record of course coordination and participation in the development and continuous innovation of new programs, curriculum design and course material in the discipline area.
    A solid record of supervision of Honours and Research Higher Degree students to successful completion.
    A growing record of meaningful internal service roles in conjunction with a strong contribution to external activities.

The successful candidate may be required to complete a number of pre-employment checks, including: right to work in Australia, criminal check, education check, etc.

Work Rights: Visa sponsorship may be available for this appointment.

Relocating from interstate or overseas? We will support you with the visa sponsorship process and a relocation support package. You can find out more about life in Australia’s Sunshine State here.
Questions?

For more information about this opportunity, please contact Professor Claudio Mezzetti (c.mezzetti@uq.edu.au). For application queries, please contact talent@uq.edu.au stating the job reference number (R-55907) in the subject line.
Want to Apply?

Please apply through our listing on the JOE Network: HERE

All applicants must upload the following documents in order for your application to be considered:

    Resume
    Cover letter addressing the ‘About You’ section
    Job Market/Research Paper
    Two written references/recommendations

Applications close Saturday, 8 November 2025 at 11.00pm AEST (R-55907). Please note that interviews and seminars are expected to take place across December 2025.
Other Information

UQ is committed to a fair, equitable and inclusive selection process, which recognises that some applicants may face additional barriers and challenges which have impacted and/or continue to impact their career trajectory. Candidates who don’t meet all criteria are encouraged to apply and demonstrate their potential. The selection panel considers both potential and performance relative to opportunities when assessing suitability for the role.

We know one of our strengths as an institution lies in our diverse colleagues. We're dedicated to equity, diversity, and inclusion, fostering an environment that mirrors our wider community. We're committed to attracting, retaining, and promoting diverse talent. Reach out to talent@uq.edu.au for accessibility support or adjustments.

To apply, visit https://www.aeaweb.org/joe/listing.php?JOE_ID=2025-02_111476271. (See posting for details.) 

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION


A word from the Vice-Chancellor and President

For over a century of service to the people of Queensland, Australia and the wider world, The University of Queensland’s (UQ) central mission has been remarkably consistent and enduring. Put simply, UQ is here to deliver for the public good through excellence in education, research and engagement with our communities and partners.
Read the full message
Strategic Plan 2022–2025

Download the Strategic Plan (PDF, 2.65 MB)
Plan on a page

Download the Plan on a page (PDF, 50.1KB) (staff login required)
UQ Strategic Plan 2026–2029

Consultation for the next Strategic Plan is underway. We are engaging with UQ staff, students, alumni and partners to help shape the future of our University.

Create change. Contribute now.
Our vision, mission and values
Vision

Knowledge leadership for a better world.
Mission

Our core purpose is to deliver for the public good through excellence in education, research and engagement with our communities and partners: local, national and global.
Values

Our values guide our behaviour and provide the foundation of our culture.

In this Strategic Plan, we announce refreshed values that articulate what we strive for, how we work together, and our commitment to discovering and sharing truth:

Creativity, Excellence, Truth, Integrity, Courage, Respect, and Inclusivity.
View our refreshed values
By 2032, UQ will be known as a university that:
Delivers highly sought-after graduates, who are prepared for future success through rich and broad educational experiences
Leads as a premier provider of high-quality postgraduate and lifelong learning opportunities
Leverages the breadth and depth of its research capabilities and vibrant precincts to address the world’s most pressing challenges
Is a trusted and agile partner widely regarded as a leader in entrepreneurship, knowledge exchange and commercialisation
Has an extensive global reach in education and research with a strong commitment to capacity building in the Indo-Pacific
Breaks down barriers to education through the targeted and effective Queensland Commitment
Is values-led, deeply committed to delivering for the public good and supporting our people, leading reconciliation, and embracing 

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

As one of Australia's leading research-intensive economics schools, we bring an innovative, agenda-setting perspective that enriches our teaching and engagement with the wider community through joint discovery, consulting and other outreach activities.

We gather leading researchers in behavioural sciences across UQ

UQ's Centre for Unified Behavioural and Economic Sciences (CUBES) is an interdisciplinary group of researchers in economics and behavioural sciences.

Researchers from the CUBES come from different disciplines: behavioural and experimental economics, psychology, neuroscience, and mathematics. They use these different perspectives both in fundamental research to understand how people make decisions and in policy and industry applications to help decision-makers.

The cluster uses a state of the art laboratory to conduct behavioural experiments.

potential co-authors:
- Marco Faravelli with his work on voting behavior and polarization

END ECON DEPT