START JOB DESCRIPTION


ROCKWOOL Foundation Berlin — Institute for the Economy and the Future of Work (RFBerlin)

The ROCKWOOL Foundation Berlin (RFBerlin) invites applications for postdoctoral fellow positions in economics. The initial contract is for two years, with the possibility of renewal for up to six years. Positions are full-time and based in Berlin.
Candidate Profile

We seek applicants with strong training in applied economics and econometrics, particularly those proficient in working with administrative and survey data. Candidates should demonstrate the potential to produce high-quality research suitable for leading academic journals.
About RFBerlin

RFBerlin conducts applied research on major challenges to the welfare state in a globalized economy, with the aim of informing and elevating public debate through rigorous scholarship.

Our research spans a wide range of topics, including:

    labor markets and international trade
    regional and gender inequalities
    globalization and migration
    health and technology
    the organization and management of work
    knowledge spillovers, innovation, and economic espionage

RFBerlin offers an exceptional research environment. The institute hosts internationally renowned faculty, a large and vibrant group of junior researchers, frequent visits by leading scholars, and benefits from a network including the most prominent labor economists in our profession. Fellows benefit from regular seminars, workshops, masterclasses, and conferences, as well as research and administrative support.
What We Offer

    No teaching obligations, allowing full focus on research.
    Access to unique datasets and a high-performance computing environment.
    A collaborative and international community based in Berlin, through the Berlin School of Economics, with excellent opportunities to engage in academic events across Europe.

Application Process

RFBerlin is an equal opportunity employer.

Applications should include:

    CV
    Motivation letter
    Job market paper
    Up to two additional manuscripts (optional)
    At least two letters of reference

Please submit your application via econjobmarket.org by 15 November 2025 (12:00 a.m. UTC).

Virtual interviews will be held in December 2025, primarily as part of the European Job Market.

For further information about the Institute, please visit www.rfberlin.com, or contact us at career@rfberlin.com.


END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION


About

ROCKWOOL Foundation Berlin – Institute for the Economy and the Future of Work (RFBerlin) is an independent research institute. We conduct research into significant and global challenges to the economy, society and the welfare state.
Research institute

RFBerlin conducts applied, data-driven research that is impartial, based on objective scientific principles and held to the highest standards of academic excellence. RFBerlin is funded by the ROCKWOOL Foundation, a self-financing and independent charitable foundation established in 1981 to support credible research for the benefit of society as a whole. RFBerlin operates within a broad international network and works closely with its partner institute in Copenhagen. Our research aims to inform public debate and provide the best possible foundation for policy decisions.
Research structure

RFBerlin brings together leading scholars from Germany, Europe and around the world to conduct research at the frontier of economics and social science. RFBerlin offers a first-class, in-house research infrastructure and support framework. Our research informs policy by providing evidence-based insights to academics, policymakers, journalists, specialised users and the wider public.
Research integration

RFBerlin’s project leaders coordinate research teams and play an active role in mentoring junior scholars. We operate within a broad international knowledge network, allowing our research assistants, PhD students and postdoctoral fellows to spend time at leading research institutions to foster synergies, facilitate collaboration and build partnerships with top scholars from around the world.
Development of early-career researchers

RFBerlin has a clear and cohesive structure for training and mentoring early-career researchers. Our PhD students and postdoctoral fellows participate in the Berlin-wide Berlin School of Economics (BSoE) as well as in training programmes at RFBerlin and other institutions. This ensures their integration into a wider academic network and provides access to specialised support for research and career development. RFBerlin’s regular seminar series and master classes offer early-career researchers the opportunity to present their work and engage with leading scholars from around the world.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT



END ECON DEPT