START JOB DESCRIPTION

The Department of Economics at the Universitat Rovira i Virgili (Faculty of Economics and Business, Reus, Catalonia, Spain) invites applications for three Assistant Professorships in all fields of Economics.

Note that one of the three offered positions (profile Economic Theory) must be filled by the end of December 2025. Recruitment starts immediately and we will expedite the process to reach a decision.

For the remaining two positions applications can be submitted up to March 2026. However, we encourage to apply as soon as possible as we will also immediately start the process of reviewing and contacting candidates until the positions are filled.

We are looking for outstanding candidates from internationally well-recognized PhD programs. Priority will be given to candidates with at least 1 year of post-doctoral experience.

With respect to teaching responsibilities, the selected candidates are expected to initially teach in the undergraduate program and supervise students’ work. Teaching will be either in Catalan or Spanish, with the possibility of teaching partially in English. To facilitate the candidate’s research activity, teaching load is reduced below regular course work for tenured faculty.

The successful applicants are expected to prove potential for publication in top-ranked journals. Also, the successful candidates should collaborate with the established research groups of the Department in applying for external research funding, and contributing to knowledge exchange and dissemination of research results.

The Department of Economics aims to conduct research in a broad range of areas within Economics and offers undergraduate and graduate programs at the highest level. The Department employs approximately 40 faculty members and 10 PhD students. Our senior faculty members have a well-recognized publication record and are internationally connected. In addition, there is group of junior researchers coming from high-quality PhD programs that have recently joined the Department.

We focus on the recruitment of excellent national and international researchers. Our research and degree programs have a strong international focus. The Department hosts several research centers and external funding of research activities is a top priority.

For more information about the Department of Economics, please visit: www.de.urv.cat

Further information

For further information about the position and the department, please contact the Head of Recruiting Committee Prof. Ferran Mañé (e-mail: ferran.mane@urv.cat). When applying for this position it is mandatory to attach the following:

- Motivation letter for the Assistant Professorship.

- Curriculum Vitae, with detailed record of research and teaching experience.

- Two reference letters.

We will interview on-line a list of selected candidates and a shortlist of successful candidates for each position will be selected by the appointment committee and invited to the Department for a seminar and further interview. The process will start by October and remain open until the positions are filled.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION



The Universitat Rovira i Virgili is the university that provides southern Catalonia with a knowledge structure of international renown. Through teaching, research, knowledge transfer and culture it helps society to be more just and free.

It was created in 1991 by the Parliament of Catalonia from the existing university faculties and schools and it was named after Antoni Rovira i Virgili, a writer, historian and politician from Tarragona who was president of the Parliament of Catalonia in exile. The 16th-century University of Tarragona was thus given new life. From day one, it has aimed to put knowledge at the service of society in order to contribute to the social and economic development of the region, which has constantly been changing over time.
Map of Catalonia with URV campuses marked: 12 own centers; 4 affiliated centers; and 23 departments. 384,000 square meters.

The URV has twelve faculties and schools throughout the region, as well as affiliated centres, all of which are equipped with modern teaching and research facilities. The courses on offer cover all areas of knowledge. There are nearly 60 undergraduate programmes and 60 master's degrees (many of which are inter-university), an extensive doctoral programme and a wide variety of lifelong learning courses so that professionals can constantly update their knowledge and improve their skills.

Every year, 15,000 students are trained in all areas of knowledge, so that they can respond to the demands of society and the needs of the environment. At the URV, the class groups are small, and students have a close relationship with the teaching staff, can do internships in companies and do degrees that combine an academic education with professional training.

The University has an international vocation and is a member of several networks with which it shares the vision of influencing social change through academic excellence and research.

Likewise, it is an institution that is academically and socially committed to human rights, to institutions and the rights and democratic ideals of citizens and the region, and, in particular, to the defence of the Catalan language and culture.

The URV is committed to social, cultural, economic and sustainable development. For this reason, we train our future professionals to be socially and environmentally responsible.
All figures

The researchers at the University are a source of talent attraction, and the scientific output they produce increases year after year. This data enhances the international standing of the URV and the institution's position in the rankings.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

And you, how do you imagine your future?
Learn in an innovative and personalised way

Benefit from personalised treatment, small groups and a relaxed atmosphere with your teachers.

Use innovative and participatory methodologies that will let you put into practice the knowledge that you have acquired from real life work situations.

Your teacher will guide you in your academic and professional learning.

Acquire the competencies that you need for your professional future and that companies most value: teamwork, IT skills, communicating appropriately in different situations and solving problems critically, creatively and innovatively.
Increase your employment prospects

All curricula are designed in collaboration with companies and institutions from the sector to enable you to acquire the most useful competences for your professional future.

You can undertake an internship at companies and institutions from the sector.

70% of our students are in employment within three months of graduating, and 8 out of 10 have a job involving university level duties.

You will have training to help you find work, which will involve planning your degree and taking advantage of all the job opportunities in your chosen area.

Study in an international environment

Do a mobility stay in any of the more than 500 universities from around the world with which the URV has an agreement. You can also have your first working experience in a foreign company.

Each year, more than 2,000 international students register at the URV, with the result that 8% of bachelor's students and 36% of postgraduate students are from abroad.

The URV has its own International Center to help you prepare for your study abroad and to welcome and guide students who arrive from other countries.
Benefit from high quality training

The quality of our courses and our teaching staff has been recognised by the university quality agencies (AQU and ANECA) and are in accordance with the standards set out by the European Higher Education Area.

The main rankings place us among the best universities in the world.



END ECON DEPT