START JOB DESCRIPTION

The Department of Economics at Sciences Po invites applications for junior positions (assistant professor, tenure-track) starting September 1, 2026.

Positions are open to all fields of economics, but applicants specialized in industrial organization will be given higher priority.

Candidates are offered a competitive salary package and a light teaching load. Applications from candidates from any country and background are welcome. English is the Department’s working language (for teaching as well) and knowledge of French is not required. Sciences Po is an equal opportunity employer, and is committed to balanced gender, geographical, and minority representation. We particularly welcome applications from women.

Interviews will be conducted through the European Job Market virtual meetings held from the 15th to the 17th of December 2025.

Application Instructions

Candidates should have a Ph.D. in hand or firmly expected by August 2026 and should show promise or significant scholarship and teaching ability. A completed application consists of a cover letter, a CV, a copy of important publications or working papers, evidence of teaching performance (if available), and should arrange for the submission of three letters of recommendation. Complete applications should be received by November 10th 2025 to be guaranteed full consideration. All candidates must apply through the online application of EconJobMarket.org.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Sciences Po is an international research university, both selective and open onto the world, ranking among the finest institutions in the fields of humanities and social sciences.

Sciences Po was created because its founder, Emile Boutmy, wanted to build from scratch an institution of higher education that the elites of the time lacked. One hundred and fifty years later, Sciences Po has become an international research university with 15,000 students. But the foundation of our education remains driven by the same vocation: to better understand the world in order to change it for the better.

Sciences Po stands out for combining approaches and confronting different worldviews. This tradition of diversity and multidisciplinary approach makes Sciences Po an active participant in public debate, a forum where thought meets action.
An education that promotes responsibility

Sciences Po's overarching mission is to educate future leaders in the public and private sectors. Curious and open-minded, Sciences Po graduates, regardless of their focus and trajectory, all share the ability to “learn how to learn”, which is one of the priorities of our education. However, our ambition extends even further: to educate open-minded and enlightened citizens capable of changing the world and transforming society.
A university with an international outlook

Sciences Po's international dimension was established in its founding documents. Driven by this vocation for nearly 150 years, today Sciences Po stands out as a world-class university, with internationally-recognised degrees and research, a multicultural community and a worldwide network of partners.
Fundamental education and professional focus

At Sciences Po, the finest researchers in the social sciences engage in continual dialogue with the greatest practitioners. With an academic community of more than 4,500 academics including 2,400 practitioners, the knowledge we transmit to students is nurtured by innovative research and rooted in reality.
A selective and diverse university

Sciences Po recruits its students on the basis of academic excellence. Nevertheless, it was one of the first institutions of higher learning in France to have fully assumed its social responsibilities by promoting intellectual, geographic and social diversity in its student body. Open to all talents, Sciences Po recruits students in nearly 150 countries and provides financial support to four out of every ten students.
Research to understand the world

Sciences Po is a research university in the social sciences, internationally recognised for the quality of its scientific output. Developed with a strong focus on society, research conducted at Sciences Po enriches public debate.
An institution in motion and a driver of innovation

Since it was founded nearly 150 years ago, Sciences Po has never stopped reinventing itself. More than anything, Sciences Po today is a place where new ideas can be put forward and implemented. Educational methods, academic openness, inventive tools: this flair for innovation is one of our trademarks.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

The Department of Economics was created in 2009, when Sciences Po decided to create a new dynamic in economic research led by its permanent faculty, to "re-fundamentalize" the teaching of economics and to raise the international recognition of its research centers.

The evaluation of the Department of Economics in 2018 by the national evaluation agency (HCERES) highlights the fact that this ambitious policy has allowed the Department to climb "to the top of the world hierarchy".

For the first time, fundamental research in economics was promoted alongside applied research, evaluation of public policy at Sciences Po. Econometrics, game theory, quantitative political economy, and quantitative methods were introduced.

Simultaneously, the core courses in economics have started to be taught by academic researchers as opposed to practitioners originating from the high civil service or from the corporate or political spheres. The faculty has collectively dedicated itself to redefining Sciences Po’s curricula by introducing theoretical and empirical tools as early as the undergraduate level. This has allowed the Department to prepare Sciences Po’s students for graduate-level research and for an internationally competitive PhD in Economics.

Making this shift has been worthwhile:

In 2016 - only seven years after its creation - the Department was accredited by the Centre national de recherche scientifique (CNRS), the french National Centre for Scientific Research, when it became an "Unité Mixte de Recherche" - UMR 8259 Sciences économiques.

The Department's researchers have brought home 19 coveted European Research Council (ERC) grants as well as substantial national funding by the Agence nationale de recherche (ANR), among many others.

It was one of the institutional partners for the teaching of economic history in the shape of a 3-year Marie Curie "International Training Network" programme (MACROHIST).

In recent years the Department has been honoured to host such prestigious events as the Society for Institutional and Organizational Economics'  Annual World Conference in 2016 or the Restud Tour in 2019.

Our students are placing remarkably well: the top graduates from the Master programme who subsequently pursued a PhD were admitted to the best PhD programmes (Berkeley, Yale, Duke, Northwestern, as well as Sciences Po) and our young doctors have been recruited by top universities in France and around the world (UCLA, UCL, Oxford, Bocconi, University of Bonn, University of Amsterdam,  Leuven, ENS Paris, HEC Paris, Carlos III, INSEAD, ...) as well as research institutions and international organisations.

Over the years, we have succeeded in attracting a large array of long-term visitors from the most prestigious North-American, European universities and beyond.

At the heart of its objective to reinforce and extend the scope of research in economics at Sciences Po, is the Department's determination to shape a compact scientific community capable of international reach. The Department has grown fast since 2009, from 11 to 35 members to date.

Faculty members are recruited on the international Job Market, where the best “rookies” each year meet with the universities with the most ambitious recruitment strategies. This is the guarantee of renewed and sustained quality of our recruitment in terms both of academic excellence and internationalization of the faculty. Also important in the recruitment process, we value the willingness to participate in our institution-building enterprise, and participate in synergies with other departments at Sciences Po. Because the vast majority of our permanent faculty obtained their PhD abroad, and many have taught outside of France, the Department is further enriched by alternative professional practices and international networks.

The Department initially developed around a focused core of topics – i.e. political economy, international economics, labour economics and econometrics. Over the last few years these topics have broadened to now include a strong group of theoretical economics, a team of researchers specialised in development economics, and expanded vastly its expertise in macroeconomics, and industrial organization.

People to work with:
- Julia Cagé excelent research fit with her work on media and txt analysis of tweets
- Yann Algan: with his work on culture 
- Suzanna Khalifa: with work on culture and gender in particular with domestic violence which I have not explored

END ECON DEPT