START JOB DESCRIPTION

    

The Graduate School of Business at Stanford University invites applications for tenure-track faculty positions in economics beginning September 1, 2026. All fields of economics will be considered. Candidates should possess strong research and teaching abilities and must have, or expect to have, a PhD by September 1, 2026. Duties include research and teaching in the MBA and PhD programs at the Graduate School of Business.

Applicants should submit their applications electronically by visiting the website https://econjobmarket.org/positions/11849 and uploading their curriculum vitae, research papers and publications, and teaching evaluations (if applicable) on that site. For an application to be considered complete, all applicants must submit a CV, a job market paper, and arrange for three letters of recommendation. The submission deadline is 4pm PT on Friday November 7, 2025 (midnight UTC). For questions regarding the application process, please send an email to Faculty_Recruiter@gsb.stanford.edu.

The expected base pay range for this position is:

Assistant Professor: $265,000 - $285,000

Associate Professor: $310,000 - $335,000

Full Professor: $390,000 - $450,000

Stanford University has provided a pay range representing its good faith estimate of what the university reasonably expects to pay for the position. The pay offered to the selected candidate will be determined based on factors including (but not limited to) the experience and qualifications of the selected candidate including years since terminal degree, training, and field or discipline; departmental budget availability; internal equity; and external market pay for comparable jobs.

Stanford is an equal employment opportunity and affirmative action employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law. Stanford welcomes applications from all who would bring additional dimensions to the University’s research, teaching and clinical missions.

Consistent with its obligations under the law, the University will provide reasonable accommodations to applicants and employees with disabilities. Applicants requiring a reasonable accommodation for any part of the application or hiring process should contact disability.access@stanford.edu.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

From its founding in California in the late 19th century until today, Stanford has been infused with the American West’s spirit of openness and possibility. We believe strongly in the mission of higher education – to create and share knowledge and to prepare students to be curious, to think critically, and to contribute to the world. With world-class scholars and seven schools located together on a single campus, Stanford offers academic excellence across the broadest array of disciplines. It also is an engine of innovation, blending theory and practice to move ideas and discoveries from labs and classrooms out into the world. We strive to foster a culture of expansive inquiry, fresh thinking, searching discussion, and freedom of thought – preparing students for leadership and engaged citizenship in the world.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT



The economics academic area includes faculty that study a broad range of topics in their discipline, including economic theory, industrial organization, labor economics, macroeconomics, econometrics, environmental economics, and international trade.

The economic faculty bring ideas from economic research (both their own and those from the broader community of economic scholars) to the classroom.

The group teaches principles of economics and statistics in managerial foundations classes, as well as applications of economics in classes on strategy, public policy, human resource management, global management, and other topics.

The rigorous application of economic principles permeates the Stanford MBA Program, Stanford MSx Program, and Stanford GSB Executive Education curricula. The economics area extends its impact beyond Stanford by publishing, educating PhD students, and influencing public policy.


END ECON DEPT