START JOB DESCRIPTION

The Department of Economics at Stockholm University invites applications for two junior faculty positions beginning in September 2026. Stockholm University is a large public university and the Department of Economics is an active research department with a full-scale graduate program.

Our positions are six-year tenure-track appointments with a low teaching load of approximately two quarter-length courses per year and a competitive salary package, including flexible research funds. Decision on tenure is taken during the sixth year (with an option of an early evaluation) in accordance with Swedish legislation and university regulations. The positions are open for any field of Economics and research potential is our key selection criterion. Candidates should have completed or be near completion of the PhD.

The Faculty Search Committee will conduct interviews online during the period December 15-18, 2025, according to European Job Market for Economists (EJME) guidelines, as well as at SNS Job market meeting in Stockholm, on December 11, 2025. Other arrangements are possible for short-listed candidates who are unable to schedule an interview during this period.

To apply, submit your CV, a cover letter, your job market paper and three letters of recommendation at https://econjobmarket.org by November 15, 2025. For further information concerning the department, please visit https://www.ne.su.se/english/.

For more information, email: susanne.pahlsson@su.se or david.stromberg@su.se

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

trategies for Stockholm University 2023–2026 state the overall vision and direction for the university's operations and priorities.

    The idea of the modern university, shaped in the spirit of the Enlightenment, has characterised Stockholm University ever since its inception. Rooted in a millennial European tradition, universities drive the emergence of new knowledge and the future society. Europe’s multifaceted cultural and educational heritage is a common ground for this. The modern research university, with its collegial governance and research-based education, has a central place here.

 
Strategies

This is how the strategies for the next four years begin. It should show who we are, what we want and where we are going. It clarifies our core values, focus and ambition within the framework of four identified strategic areas.

The Strategies are presented every four years and laid down by the university board. The Strategies also include the profile areas for research.

Read the strategies for 2023-2026

Strategies 2023-2026 designed PDF with pictures (382 Kb)

Read the strategies 2023-2026 in Swedish
 
 
Core values

Stockholm University’s core values of knowledge, enlightenment and the pursuit of truth are found in the Strategies, together with the fundamental academic values of autonomy, academic freedom, justice and integrity.

The core values form the basis of all of the university’s activities. They were developed through engagement with the Living Values project in 2019. 

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

e offer one of the best environments in Europe for research and higher education in economics. Our researchers, together with researchers at IIES and SOFI, teach on all study levels.
 
About the department
History

Economics is one of the oldest subjects at Stockholm University. From 1888, ten years after the inauguration of Stockholm University College, Johan Leffler gave lectures in economics.

In 1904, Gustav Cassel was called to the position of professor in economics. He was the third professor at the university, preceded by Viktor Rydberg in cultural history from 1884 and Sonja Kovalevsky in mathematics from 1889. Cassel's background was mathematics and his fields were equilibrium theory and monetary theory. During the 1920's, he was a world-famous economist.

Two of our alumni have been awarded the Nobel Prize: Gunnar Myrdal in 1974 and Bertil Ohlin in 1977.
Today

Today, the department is a dynamic environment for researchers and students from around the world. The department also hosts the Scandinavian Journal of Economics, one of the oldest international journals in economics.

The economics departments at Stockholm University – the Department of Economics, the Institute for International Economic Studies (IIES) and the Swedish Institute for Social Research (SOFI) are ranked no. 26 in Europe and no. 1 in Sweden (no. 66 in the world) in the Tilburg University list of the top 100 economics departments.
The Department of Economics in numbers

    Around 35 teachers and researchers.
    Approximately 75 doctoral students, spread across our department, the Institute for International Economic Studies, and the Institute for Social Research.
    11 staff members working in administration, finance, and IT.
    Around 1,000 students annually.

People to work with:
- Johannes Haushofer: for his work in experimental economics and aspirations could complement my measurements
- Jay Eui Jung Lee : with her work on gender
- Andreas Madestam: with his work on machine learning uses in economics

END ECON DEPT