START JOB DESCRIPTION

The Department of Economics in the College of Arts & Sciences at Texas A&M University is seeking to fill a position at the rank of Assistant Professor in the field of Applied Microeconomics. This tenure-track position is a 9-month academic appointment with an anticipated start date of August 1, 2026.

In addition to publishing in leading journals, the successful candidate will be expected to teach undergraduate and graduate courses, supervise graduate students, participate in the applied microeconomics workshop, serve on an appropriate department committee, and be involved as a member of Ph.D. dissertation committees.

This position requires a Ph.D. in economics or a related field. All appointees are expected to be committed to teaching and research of the highest quality.

Applications must be submitted online at the Interfolio website. Applicants should submit a cover letter, vita, a personal statement to include philosophy and plans on research, teaching, and service as appropriate, and arrange for three letters of reference to be submitted online.

For fullest consideration, applications should be received by November 1, 2025. Review of applications will continue until the position is filled.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION


Purpose Statement

Our purpose is to develop leaders of character dedicated to serving the greater good.
Aggie Code of Honor

Our students live by an honor code of honesty and integrity. The Aggie Code of Honor is "An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal or tolerate those who do."

The Texas A&M Aggie Honor System Office serves to:

    Educate students, faculty and staff about the Aggie Code of Honor.
    Respond to potential academic misconduct by Texas A&M students.
    Help remediation efforts for students responsible for Aggie Code of Honor violations.

See Our Student Rules

    An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal or tolerate those who do.

Aggie Honor Code
Core Values

Our core values unify our current and former students, faculty and staff. They are guideposts we live by and show in our words and deeds. We are a community of problem-solvers, scholars and creators with a service mission.

Respect

    We believe people matter. We value and treat ourselves and others with care, compassion, dignity, civility and fairness. We appreciate, learn from and create a welcoming and inclusive environment that values uniqueness, diversity and a sense of community.
Excellence

    We are dedicated to excel in what we do and say we will do, and we continually strive to improve. We are passionate about delivering results and achieving desired outcomes, impact and value that exceeds expectations – of our own and of others.
Leadership

    We set the example. We embody our values. We are courageous and forward thinking, embracing change and propelling ourselves and the University. We unify, inspire and empower each other.
Loyalty

    We are dedicated to a greater purpose. We trust, respect and support each other. We are stronger and better together because of our shared support of the University.
Integrity

    We are trustworthy and honest with ourselves and others. We honor and follow through on commitments and expectations, holding ourselves and others accountable for our actions, behaviors and outcomes. We operate with the highest ethical standards in all we do.
Selfless Service

    We are part of a global community and purpose that is bigger than ourselves. We work with and help others to have a positive impact; and, we do so without expectation of recognition or reward.

Sustainability

Texas A&M opened as a land-grant institution in 1876 and later received sea-grant and space-grant designations. With these designations, we are a leader in research and education regarding how we interact with and impact our environment.

The Texas A&M Office of Sustainability promotes sustainable practices on and off campus. It provides resources and support for people who wish to incorporate sustainable practices into their work and life.

Learn more about our Office of Sustainability
First Amendment on Campus

At Texas A&M, we are a community where the free and open exchange of ideas and information is valued, promoted and encouraged.

Learn more about our commitment to the First Amendment
Traditions

We seek to be a top-quality university while respecting our past and our many traditions that have formed since we began instruction in 1876. These traditions embody our core values while recognizing our history, honoring those we've lost and celebrating our excellence and successes. 

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT



Welcome to the Department of Economics at Texas A&M University – a highly ranked program with world-class faculty in a variety of fields.  Our department is passionate about giving students the education they need to succeed in an ever changing world.

The Department of Economics is physically located on West Campus and you can find our location in the WCSS - West Campus Social Sciences Building. The advising office for ECON undergraduates is located on the first floor of WCSS, while the ECON Faculty, Staff and Graduate advisors for ECON Masters and ECON PhD students are located on the second floor. The WCSS is open from 7am to 7pm, Monday through Friday. ECON faculty, staff and others with access permission can still enter the building before or after operating hours using their Texas A&M ID card via swipe access.

To build a solid base of understanding, students take foundational courses in microeconomics, macroeconomics and mathematics, then refine those skills in statistics and intermediate economic theory classes. In upper-level courses these reasoning abilities are applied to specific situations, with a particular focus on understanding social problems from an economics perspective. The Economics Research Laboratory at Texas A&M, one of the world’s foremost experimental economics research facilities, offers opportunities for students to conduct their own experiments as part of coursework or independent research.

The Department offers undergraduates the choice of either a Bachelor of Arts or a Bachelor of Science degree. In addition to a highly ranked PhD program, the Department also offers a Masters of Science of Economics with concentrations in Financial Economics or Financial Econometrics that is consistently ranked in the top 20 in the US. Other unique programs that are offered include a 3+2 “Fastrack” program that allows students to get both their Bachelors and their Masters in ECON in only five years along with two additional five-year programs joint with the Bush School of Government & Public Service.

We invite you to explore our website and learn of the variety of courses, programs and resources available to both current and prospective students.

People to work with:
- Ragan Petrie and Daniella Serra with their workm on experimental economics that can help me test the direct mechanisms of entretainment media on attitudes with experinments
- Jonathan Meer where we could explore the effects of specific media types that influence charities
- Catherine C. Eckel to explore more deeply the literature of media and gender gaps

END ECON DEPT