START JOB DESCRIPTION

The Social Science and Government School at Tecnológico de Monterrey has several openings. We invite applications from candidates specializing in the following areas of economics: Macroeconomics, Data Science, and Mathematical Economics. We have positions with priority in research as well as positions with a larger weight in teaching. For the research positions, we are interested in candidates with the potential to conduct theoretically informed, empirical, and policy-relevant research for publication in top academic journals and other peer-reviewed venues. Furthermore, we have place for candidates with a higher teaching orientation that can consider a track of lecturer and teaching innovators.

We will consider junior candidates that will complete their degree no later than June 2026.

Compensation is competitive and includes support for research activities.

Tecnológico de Monterrey is an equal opportunity employer, committed to building a culturally diverse intellectual community, and strongly encourages applications from women and minorities.

Non-Discrimination Statement: Our institution does not discriminate against job candidates on the basis of actual or perceived gender, gender identity, race, color, national origin, sexual orientation, marital status, disability, or religion.

Application deadline: 11/25/2025

Application Instructions:

Tecnológico de Monterrey will invite final candidates to interviews through Zoom meetings.

Documents Required: Applicants should send the following documents in PDF format through the website application.

● A cover letter, explaining why you would like to work in Mexico.

● Curriculum Vitae.

● Job Market Paper.

● A research statement for the next three years (no longer than three pages).

● A statement of teaching philosophy (no more than two pages) that includes potential course offerings.

● Three letters of recommendation written within the last year. In the case of early career scholars at least one of these letters should come from the PhD advisor.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION


Principles

The principles underlying the vision, educational philosophy, identity, and unity of all campuses and academic units pertaining to Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, or Tecnológico de Monterrey, are based on the ideals of our founders and serve as an ethical reference point for the rules that directly govern our institutional and academic decisions and behaviors.

 

 
1 Tecnológico de Monterrey is committed to core values and promotes ethical behavior. The members of our university community are committed to honesty, respect for personal dignity, justice, equality, responsibility, trust, solidarity, hard work, fulfillment of duty, and self-realization.
2 
Freedom of expression

Principle 2

Tecnológico de Monterrey respects freedom of expression, which means the right of our students, employees, professors, and executives to express their thoughts on any issue, provided they do so on behalf of themselves and not the university as a whole.

Freedom of association

Principle 3

Tecnológico de Monterrey respects the right of individuals to freely associate, provided their activities and goals do not conflict with our principles, vision, or operations.

Creating and developing socially responsible companies

Principle 9

Tecnológico de Monterrey is committed to creating and developing socially responsible companies in a market economy. We promote innovation, creativity, the use of technology, and an entrepreneurial spirit in all our community members.

3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
Values

The principles in which our Vision, our educational philosophy, our identity and all of our Campus and academic entities unity, are based in the Tecnológico de Monterrey founders´ ideals. Also, they are an ethical reference for the group of norms and reglaments that determine, in a direct way, institutional and academic decisions and their behavior.

 

 
Innovation
Integrity
Collaboration
Empathy and Inclusion
Global Citizenship

Innovation: We are passionate about the disruption that generates value.

    We break paradigms creating new opportunities for our public.
    We are entrepreneurs, we generate ideas oriented to the public we serve and make them a reality.
    We support and recognize people, so they can generate changes, take risks and learn from their mistakes.

Misión

We are the university of excellence, focusing on innovation, encouraging a community to imagine, research, undertake, build and lead transforming reality solutions.
Vision


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT



In a world where technology is increasingly present in our daily lives, careers such as Economics, Law, International Relations and Government and Public Transformation are constantly evolving to respond to the needs of a society that is transforming at an accelerated pace.

The future professionals of these careers require courage, dedication and discipline to be able to improve the future of Mexico and the world. When we talk about Law, Economics, International Relations and Government and Public Transformation, our ambition is to build awareness to Tecnológico de Monterrey as: Transformation inspired by knowledge and innovation.

The university where you can enter the professional field with all the transforming power of Tec de Monterrey.
With the most rigorous and innovative programs, taught by a faculty of excellence, and focused on putting analytical and technological tools at the service of transformation.
Here the people who will build the solutions to the great political, economic and social challenges of the future are prepared.

The university where you can enter the professional field with all the transforming power of Tec de Monterrey. With the most rigorous and innovative programs, taught by a faculty of excellence, and focused on putting analytical and technological tools at the service of transformation. You will find here the people who will build the solutions to the great political, economic and social challenges of the future are prepared.

potential co-authors:
- Bonnie J. Palifka  work on corruption
- Rebecca Bell-Martin  with her work on emphathy

END ECON DEPT