START JOB DESCRIPTION

The Department of Economics at the University of Toronto Mississauga (UTM) invites applications for a full-time tenure stream position in International Trade. The appointment will be at the rank of Assistant Professor, with an anticipated start date of July 1, 2026.

Candidates must have earned a PhD degree in Economics or a related area by the time of appointment, or shortly thereafter, with a demonstrated record of excellence in research and teaching, specializing in International Trade or a closely related subfield. We seek candidates whose research and teaching interests complement and enhance our existing departmental strengths. The successful candidate will be expected to pursue innovative and independent research, and to establish an outstanding, competitive, and externally funded research program.

Candidates must provide evidence of excellence in research of the highest international caliber, which can be demonstrated by an innovative job market paper with a significant contribution to the literature, high-quality working papers, (forthcoming) publications in top-ranked and field-relevant journals, strong recommendations by referees who themselves have a record of excellence in research of the highest international caliber, the submitted research statement, presentations at significant conferences, and awards and accolades.

Evidence of excellence in teaching will be provided through teaching accomplishments, strong letters of reference, the teaching dossier including a statement of teaching philosophy, sample syllabi, and teaching evaluations, or other evidence of superior performance in teaching-related activities submitted as part of the application. Other teaching-related activities can include performance as a teaching assistant or course instructor, experience leading successful workshops or seminars, student mentorship, and excellent conference presentations or posters.

Salary and rank will be commensurate with qualifications and experience.

The position comes with both undergraduate and graduate teaching responsibilities. The successful applicant will teach undergraduate courses in the Department of Economics at the University of Toronto Mississauga and will also become a full member of the Graduate Department of Economics of the University of Toronto, undertaking graduate teaching and supervision of doctoral students at the St. George campus. Information about the Department of Economics at the University of Toronto Mississauga is available at https://www.utm.utoronto.ca/economics/ and information about the Graduate Department of Economics located at the St. George campus is available at https://www.economics.utoronto.ca/.

At UTM we are committed to fostering an environment of diversity and inclusion. With an enviable diverse student body, we especially welcome applications from candidates who identify as Indigenous, Black, or racially visible (persons of colour), and who have experience working with, teaching or mentoring diverse groups or students. Candidates must demonstrate, in their application materials, an ability to foster diversity on campus and within the curriculum or discipline, and must show evidence of a commitment to equity, diversity, inclusion, and the promotion of a respectful and collegial environment. Candidates must submit a statement describing their contributions to equity, diversity, and inclusion, which might cover topics such as (but not limited to): teaching that incorporates a focus on underrepresented communities; efforts undertaken to develop inclusive pedagogies, collaboration, and engagement with underrepresented communities; and mentoring of students from underrepresented groups. If you have questions about this statement, please contact drew.reid@utoronto.ca.

Applications must be submitted online at https://econjobmarket.org/. A complete application will include a current curriculum vitae; a research statement outlining current and future research interests; a job market paper; up to three working papers or publications; a teaching dossier (which includes a statement of teaching philosophy, sample syllabi, and teaching evaluations or evidence of superior performance in other teaching-related activities as listed above); an EDI statement (as outlined above); and three recent letters of reference (on letterhead, dated, and signed) uploaded directly by referees.

Review of applications will begin on November 10, 2025 and applicants should endeavour to have all materials including reference letters submitted by then; however, applications will be accepted until the position is filled. Only complete applications will be considered.

If you have any questions about this position, please write to drew.reid@utoronto.ca.

All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and permanent residents will be given priority.

Diversity Statement
The University of Toronto embraces Diversity and is building a culture of belonging that increases our capacity to effectively address and serve the interests of our global community. We strongly encourage applications from Indigenous Peoples, Black and racialized persons, women, persons with disabilities, and people of diverse sexual and gender identities. We value applicants who have demonstrated a commitment to equity, diversity and inclusion and recognize that diverse perspectives, experiences, and expertise are essential to strengthening our academic mission.

Accessibility Statement
The University strives to be an equitable and inclusive community, and proactively seeks to increase diversity among its community members. Our values regarding equity and diversity are linked with our unwavering commitment to excellence in the pursuit of our academic mission.

The University is committed to the principles of the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA). As such, we strive to make our recruitment, assessment and selection processes as accessible as possible and provide accommodations as required for applicants with disabilities.

If you require any accommodations at any point during the application and hiring process, please contact uoft.careers@utoronto.ca.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION



The University of Toronto is dedicated to fostering an academic community in which the learning and scholarship of every member may flourish, with vigilant protection for individual human rights, and a resolute commitment to the principles of equal opportunity, equity and justice.1
A transformative education

The University of Toronto is one of the world’s great universities, distinguished by an extraordinary depth and breadth of excellence. U of T’s global outlook and cosmopolitan location in one of the world’s great cities is to provide students with a transformative educational experience, equipping them with the knowledge, skills and competencies needed to navigate our rapidly changing world.

Top students from across Canada and around the globe are drawn to U of T for many reasons, but what sets us apart is our comprehensive excellence, diversity, and commitment to equity and accessibility.

U of T is one university with three campuses, each of which is a comprehensive centre for teaching and research: the University of Toronto St. George, the University of Toronto Mississauga and the University of Toronto Scarborough. To take advantage of a rich, inclusive environment for study and learning, students join one or more of many smaller learning communities that include seven undergraduate colleges on the St. George campus, and a range of faculties, schools and centres at all three campuses. Our tri-campus system spans the Greater Toronto Area, allowing students to take part in experiential learning and specialized programming throughout one of the world’s most diverse and dynamic urban regions.

U of T offers its students hundreds of undergraduate, graduate and professional programs, and more than a thousand clubs, organizations, activities and volunteer opportunities, including student-run legal and dental clinics and other community-based projects. The university’s nine fully affiliated hospitals, 12 community-affiliated hospitals and health-care sites offer teaching and research experiences for students in the health sciences that are among the best in the world.

U of T is one of the world’s largest and most highly regarded centres for advanced education at the master’s and doctoral level, which plays a major role in driving our achievements in research. Recognizing the growing demand for refreshing, updating and retooling one’s knowledge and skills, U of T has also become one of North America’s largest hubs for lifelong learning.

Innovative, cutting-edge research

U of T is home to some of the world’s most talented thinkers, inventors, innovators, and educators, who are advancing knowledge and making critical discoveries for a healthier, more sustainable, prosperous, and secure future.

Consistently ranked among the top 10 public universities worldwide, U of T has remarkable strengths in disciplines that span the humanities, social sciences, sciences and the professions. According to QS World University Rankings (2025), U of T is the only university globally to place in the top 46 in all 50 subject areas — demonstrating our excellence in scholarship across a wide range of fields.

Curiosity-driven research is the catalyst that expands knowledge and holds the potential to fundamentally alter how we understand ourselves and the world around us. The exploration of knowledge has been at the root of much of our long-term social progress. Without the basic research conducted at universities, many of the most life-changing discoveries and innovations would never have occurred. At the University of Toronto, fundamental research in the sciences and engineering, social sciences, humanities and health sciences has led to the discovery of insulin and stem cells, the development of the electron microscope and one of the world’s first operational computers, the unearthing of “Peking Man,” the understanding that the medium is the message, and breakthrough developments in deep learning and neural networks. These advances were built upon decades, often centuries, of knowledge and discovery within and across disciplines.

U of T experts work at the frontier of nearly every field, collaborating with researchers across disciplinary and geographical boundaries. We explore timeless questions that open new vistas for human expression, scientific discovery, and social progress — from understanding the origins of life on earth to exploring the complexities of human experience, to contemplating our place in the universe. This fundamental research generates the ideas and innovations that forge new industries, spark social and economic change, and transform the way we live. U of T’s commitment to applied research, knowledge translation, innovation and entrepreneurship drives the continuous economic transformation of the Toronto region, and creates prosperity in Canada and beyond.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

he Department of Political Economy at the University of Toronto was founded in 1888. From 1892 to 1924 it was called the Department of Political Science, though its Head was still called "Professor of Political Economy". It was formally renamed the Department of Political Economy in 1924. In 1982 it was split into the Department of Economics and the Department of Political Science.

The recent rankings compares the department with other departments worldwide placing the Department of Economics in the top 20 departments worldwide and 1st in Canada.

Chair: Ettore Damiano

Address: 150 St. George Street, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 3G7, Canada

General Inquiries: 416-978-4622.
Undergraduate Programs

Economics is by far the most popular discipline among undergraduate students enrolled in the Faculty of Arts and Science. Nearly seventy percent of all students take at least one course in economics during their undergraduate studies, and students earn more credits in economics courses than in courses in any other discipline. The Department of Economics offers a wide variety of programs to undergraduate students, ranging from the Economics Minor, Major and Specialist Programs to various joint Programs, including the very popular Specialist Program in Commerce and Finance, offered jointly with the Rotman School of Management.

Associate Chair, Undergraduate Studies: Michael Baker.

Information about the programs is available on the undergraduate page.
Graduate Programs

The Department offers a variety of M.A. and Ph.D. programs. In any year, a total of about fifty new M.A. students and fifteen new Ph.D. students are enrolled. Total graduate student enrollment is approximately one hundred and there are about fifty members in our graduate faculty. The size of our program allows us to offer a wide variety of courses and specializations. Our programs attract a cosmopolitian collection of students from across Canada and all parts of the globe.

Most graduate students in the Department are either in an eight month M.A. program based on course work only or a Ph.D. program with a three year residency requirement. The detailed requirements for the various graduate programs, along with admissions information are described on the graduate page.

Associate Chair, Graduate Studies: Colin Stewart.
The Economics Building—Max Gluskin House

The Department of Economics is located in Max Gluskin House, named for a 1936 University of Toronto graduate, Max Gluskin. The Department has been in this location since 1982 except for 2005–2008 when the buildings were renovated and expanded. The buildings include the William Crowther house, built for a Toronto merchant in 1889. For a short history of the house, with pictures including some from the middle of the 20th century, see the file "History of Max Gluskin House" [pdf]. For the story of the 2005–08 renovation, including pictures of the demolition and the construction and the story of the gift by Ira Gluskin and Maxine Granovsky-Gluskin that enabled the full renovation project, see the file "Economics Renovation Project 2003-2008" [pdf].

potential co-authors:
- Arteaga, Carolina, with her work on beliefs and immigration
- ceren baysan with her work on misperceptions

END ECON DEPT