START JOB DESCRIPTION

Toulouse School of Economics (TSE) is offering multiple Assistant Professorships in Economics on competitive terms, starting September 1, 2026 for a period of six years corresponding to a three-year contract renewable once after a "mid-term" review. TSE offers an exciting research environment, a low teaching load and no administrative obligations. Assistant professors will be offered permanent positions in the French academic system following a successful tenure evaluation at the end of the six years.

TSE invites applications from strong candidates in all areas of economics, with priority given to Macro-Finance, Economic Theory and Econometrics.

Proven research abilities are necessary, and the PhD should be completed by the date of the appointment. Graduates of any country are eligible.

Knowledge of French is NOT required.

Online applications have to be received by November 15, 2025 on econjobmarket.org. Any query or further details about applications should be sent to jobmarket@TSE-fr.eu. Selected applicants will be offered a virtual interview by zoom in December 2025.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

TSE's missions are to advance and transmit knowledge, at international level,  in economics, quantitative social sciences, and decision mathematics to address today’s societal challenges. Our aim is to empower our students, partners and the citizens with the scientific knowledge and tools to identify and implement well-informed and impactful decisions combining individual freedom and the need to coordinate actions in the pursuit of the common good.

In 1979 Jean-Jacques Laffont, world-class economist, returned to his hometown Toulouse from the USA. Visionary and entrepreneurial as he was, his dream was to combine the best of his different worlds to create a new model in France: an internationally renowned school of economics within a public university.

As Jean-Jacques used to say, “Toulouse, c’est mon Amérique à moi”. And so he gathered around him a strong group of like-minded colleagues committed to academic excellence, all determined for economics to have a real impact on society and everyday lives.

These so-called “économistes de Toulouse” steadily laid the foundations for what, 30 years later, has become Toulouse School of Economics, a thriving world-renowned center for research in economics chaired by Nobel laureate Jean Tirole.

TSE strives to:

    provide solutions to today’s key economic and social issues
    promote excellence in research & higher education
    encourage pioneering interdisciplinary research
    connect research to policy, in France, Europe and worldwide
    implement highest international standards in its own governance


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

Excelent mathc with The group Behavior, Institutions, and Development brings together TSE researchers working on the fields of development economics, labor economics, political economy, economic history, law and economics, as well as behavioral and experimental economics. In particular, we focus on these three broad research agendas:

- The multifaceted consequences of market frictions (e.g. regulation, limited information, financial constraints) and market structure (e.g. competition, vertical integration) on both individuals and firms in developing countries.

- The co-determination and joint evolution of economic and political institutions and culture, with a focus on how these factors affect economic and social development, as well as inequality of resources and opportunities from a contemporary and historic perspective;

- Non-standard preferences and beliefs and their effects on individual decisions and societal outcomes, focusing among others on social influences, identity, belief formation and memory as well as on pro-social preferences and moral attitudes, and their evolutionary foundations.

People to work with:
 - Ingela Alger: with her work on evolutionary foundations of human preferences, when these are transmitted from generation to generation and are subject to selection. She is particularly interested in the evolutionary foundations of morality and distributional preferences, as well as preferences guiding family-related behaviors where culture plays a crutial role.
 - Victor Gay: His research focuses on the long-run process of cultural change, and on the role of historical institutions for long-run economic growth
 - MAXIMILIAN W. MÜLLER : In my research, I examine social influences on individual behavior and beliefs around big life decisions such as career or fertility choices and explore their potential consequences for society-wide outcomes such as intergenerational transmission and social mobility. 

END ECON DEPT