START JOB DESCRIPTION

The Unit of Economic Analysis (UFAE) at Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (UAB), an academic unit of the Barcelona School of Economics (BSE), invites applications for Assistant and Associate Professor positions

UFAE will have one or more faculty positions starting in September of 2026. Appointments will be at the rank of Assistant Professor or Associate Professor. Complete applications, including cover letter, job market paper, CV and three reference letters, must be submitted by November 2nd, 2025. Candidates must demonstrate exceptional research potential. The committee will consider outstanding candidates from any field.
The Unit of Economic Analysis at UAB

The Unit of Economic Analysis (UFAE, www.uabufae.eu) is part of the Department of Economics and Economic History at Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (UAB). The Department is located on the UAB Bellaterra Campus, adjacent to the Institute for Economic Analysis (IAE-CSIC, www.iae.csic.es). Research activities, including regular macro, micro and applied seminars, as well as the IDEA Graduate Programme (www.uabidea.eu), are jointly organised with the IAE-CSIC.

UFAE is also one of the four academic units of the Barcelona School of Economics (BSE, www.bse.eu). This collaborative environment fosters a vibrant research atmosphere and provides excellent teaching opportunities at the PhD, MSc and undergraduate levels. UFAE boasts strong international connections, a highly regarded graduate school and a robust research focus.
Characteristics of the offer:

    Assistant Professor positions are tenure-track positions (six-year clock)
    Associate Professor positions are with tenure
    The selected candidates will deliver undergraduate and postgraduate teaching
    Candidates must hold a PhD in Economics or related areas by September 1, 2026

Application Process:

    Submit applications electronically via econjobmarket.org by November 2, 2025.
    Online interviews will be held from December 9 to 12, 2025.


END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION



END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

Welcome to the website of the Department of Economics and Economic History (DEHE) of the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona. Along with the Department of Applied Economics and the Department of Business, the DEHE is part of the Faculty of Economics and Business

Our department is located on the Bellaterra Campus, and is one of the oldest and most recognized economics departments in Spain. The department consists of two units: the Unit of Economic Analysis (UFAE) and the Unit of Economic History. Both units manage their respective master's and doctoral programs. In fact, the International Doctorate of Economics Analysis (IDEA) - managed by the UFAE - is the first postgraduate program in economics in Spain and one of the most recognized in Europe. We invite you to explore the websites of our two units to find out more about our department.

potential co-authors:
- David Andrés-Cerezo and his research on national indentities can benefit from my work
- Joanne Haddad with her work on norms and economic history
- Hanna Wang with her reseach on gender

END ECON DEPT