START JOB DESCRIPTION

The School of Business and Economics at Universidad de los Andes, Chile invites applications for full-time Assistant Professor or Associate Professor positions. Priority will be given to the fields of Macroeconomics, International Trade, International Finance, and Finance, but candidates from all fields will be considered.

Applicants should have a Ph.D. in Economics, Finance, or related fields, or expect to complete it by the start date of the appointment. Successful candidates should demonstrate a high-quality research record or outstanding research potential. Proficiency in Spanish is not required, as course instruction can be in English. The school offers competitive compensation and research support.

The expected start date of the appointment is July 2026. Review of applications will start on December 1st, 2025.

About us:
The UANDES School of Business and Economics promotes high-quality research in Economics, Finance, and Business Administration, aiming to be at the frontier of knowledge and connected to the international research community. Our diverse faculty, comprising 10 nationalities, conducts research on a variety of topics and has published in leading journals such as the American Economic Review, Econometrica, Journal of Political Economy, Journal of Finance, Review of Financial Studies, and Journal of Financial Economics. For more information, please visit https://www.uandes.cl/sbe or write to uandesrecruiting@gmail.com

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Universidad de los Andes was founded in 1989 in Santiago de Chile, by a group of academics and professionals who proposed the establishment of a higher education institution with the specific purpose elaborating an organic and universal synthesis of human culture, that integrates diverse fields in the radical unity of the truth, enlightened and invigorated by the Catholic faith. 
Mission

Universidad de los Andes is an institution that seeks to deepen knowledge in all areas and contribute to the integral education of its students. It encourages academic dialog, work well done and the eagerness to serve society. The University strives to radiate a way of life coherent with the teachings of the Catholic Church.
Vision

Universidad de los Andes aims to be a center of excellence, characterized by its openness to the cultural and moral challenges of society, and its desire to respond to them with innovative solutions. Faculty, alumni and students will be pivotal actors in the engagement of the University with society.
Statement of Principles of Universidad de los Andes.

This brief document sets out the principles that inspire our university and our community. The “Statement of Principles of the Universidad de los Andes” offers a guide to the work of those who are part of the University and are serving its students and Chilean society. 
Search for and commitment to truth

Search for and commitment to truth

Harmony between faith and reason

Harmony between faith and reason

Appreciation for human dignity

Appreciation for human dignity

Freedom and personal responsibility

Freedom and personal responsibility

Spirit of Service

Spirit of Service

Work well done

Work well done

Unity

Unity

Vocation of permanence

Vocation of permanence

UANDES and Opus Dei

UANDES is a university inspired by the Christian faith, promoted by a group of academics and professionals motivated by the teachings of Saint Josemaría, founder of Opus Dei.

As a University, its mission is to search for truth by means of research and teaching. As stated in the agreement between the University and the Prelature, Opus Dei provides Christian orientation offering spiritual support to all members of the educational community who freely desire it.

The Prelate of the Opus Dei, is also Honorary Rector of the University, a role that does not imply governance or management responsibilities. This is an appointment that transcends the person. Bishop Álvaro del Portillo was the first Honorary Rector, followed by Monsignor Javier Echevarría and, currently Monsignor Fernando Ocáriz.
The Prelate Monsignor Fernando Ocáriz.

Opus Dei is an institution of the Catholic Church, whose mission is to help find Christ at work, in the family and in all the circumstances of ordinary life. It promotes the universal call to holiness and apostolate, among all kinds of people.

It also encourages laity to improve society, for example through works of corporate apostolate. These are non-profit initiatives of a civil nature, and with an apostolic and service purpose.
Campus

The University campus is a geographic space specially designed to support our academic model . The architectural design seeks to be the material concretion of our mission and vision, reflecting the concept of a complex university, centered on the person and at the service of the country.

The definition of a single campus arises from the need to materially ensure the integration of diverse knowledge and interdisciplinary dialogue. The cultured coexistence promoted by the University among our scholars and students, requires a common space to facilitate personal contact and openness to other disciplines. Also, territorial unity effectively favors the “open-door” policy of authorities and the participation of the university community in common activities.

Located at the foot of the Andes mountains, large green areas with teaching and research spaces, faculty and university life, sports and recreation, culture and spiritual assistance, coexist in its 52 hectares. The infrastructure and disposition of the campus seeks to promote a serene study area, a natural environment favoring intellectual creativity and beauty with a pedagogical sense, since the relevance of aesthetics as an engine for imagination has a vital influence on the students’ learning process. For this, the architecture of our University keeps the horizon’s line clear, evoking for students and scholars, the need for a transcendent formation linked to the city and the country. This impetus to move towards the city is also reflected in the arrow that forms between its main buildings in the direction of the valley and it is where the Plaza Central (Central Square) is located and that represents the “Agora” or meeting point.

The architectural definitions of the University consider interior spaces favoring personalized treatment of students and the use of new teaching methodologies, along with outdoor meeting points open to the city. Proof of this, for example, is the existence of silent reading rooms, care and of the facilities, landscaped gardens and the sustainable and ecological development of the Master Plan, which also benefits the community.

The campus has eight academic buildings: Central, Humanities, Sciences, Library, El Reloj, Mecano, ESE Business School and the complex formed by the Center for Biomedical Research and the Teaching and Simulation Unit (CIB-UDS), which total more than 69,000 square meters built. Here you can find classrooms, laboratories, the library, offices and meeting rooms, as well as auditoriums, two Aula Magna, a Hall of Honor and an amphitheater. In the latter it is possible to develop the most varied activities of academic and cultural extension. There is also the Espacio VU, where several co-curricular workshops can be developed.

An integral cultivation of young personalities, present in the mission of the University, has orientated the disposition of a sports sector, that includes a covered gym for sports and physical training with fitness equipment, a natural grass regulation field, for soccer, rugby and hockey, two synthetic grass fields for Futbolito, one hard surface tennis court and one climbing wall, in addition to dressing rooms.

Student leisure time can be spent in the Sala Cero, the Los Ciruelos courtyard, the Quincho UANDES, the Plaza Central and the surroundings of the Library, besides cafeterias and coffee shops, among others. The Master Plan considers the future construction of a sports complex, university residences and buildings to be used by academic units, among others.

UANDES also owns two health centers, the Centro de Salud San Bernardo (San Bernando Health Center) was built in 1999, next to the parish Hospital of that same commune, whose purpose is to satisfy educational needs of health-related careers and offer coverage in various medical, dental and mental health specialties to the beneficiaries of the public health system in the area. In 4,555 square meters built, as of 2015 it recorded an average of 100,000 annual attentions, which represents about 30% of the total population of the commune.

The first of three stages of the Clinica Universidad de los Andes, located in the south-east sector of the University campus, began operating in May 2014 with the challenge of providing the country a teaching-assistance center that is at the forefront of scientific advances offering society comprehensive medical services, with a deep respect for human dignity. In 56,000 square meters it houses more than 100 hospital beds, eight surgical pavilions, four maternity wards and 12 emergency room cubicles, in addition to adult, pediatric and neonatology Intensive Care Units (ICU); Clinical Laboratory; Blood bank and Vaccination center, among other services.


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

Feel at home in Chile, at the UAndes School of Business and Economics. Immerse into an environment that you’ll never forget and become part of a community that inspires you to be your best. With our distinct programs and our unique world-class campus at the Andes mountains, you’ll find a chance to grow culturally, academically and personally. Learn Economics, Finance, Marketing, International Business and more, in English or Spanish, from professors who are at the frontiers of knowledge. I invite you to take a closer look at the UANDES SBE, visiting our Instagram accounts @internationalbusinessuandes and @comercialuandes. 
We can’t wait to join you at building wonderful memories in Chile.

END ECON DEPT