START JOB DESCRIPTION


Advertiser: Economics, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid
Field(s) of specialization: Any field
Position type(s): Assistant Professor
Location of job: C/Madrid 186, Getafe, Madrid, 28903, Spain (map)
Degree required: Doctorate
Job start date: 2026-09-01
Job duration: Continuing/permanent
Letters of reference required: 3
Application deadline: 14 Nov 2025 midnight UTC (accepting applications)
Posting end date: 30 Dec 2025
Interviews: Interviews will be conducted remotely by video starting December, 2025.
Ad text:

The Department of Economics at Universidad Carlos III de Madrid invites applications for two tenure-track assistant professor positions starting September 2026 from candidates in all fields.

Requirements:

    Ph.D. completed by September 2026.
    No knowledge of Spanish is required. The graduate program and all research activities are conducted in English. Teaching can be performed in English.

Application Process:

    Deadline: November 14.
    Applications should be submitted at econjobmarket.org.
    Submit CV, recent research sample, and three recommendation letters.
    Indicate three faculty members in our department whose research aligns with yours. This helps in the review process.

Interviews:

    Online on December 15-18.

For inquiries, please contact econjobuc3m@gmail.com.

Join us in shaping the future of economics in Madrid!


END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Rankings and accreditations

 

Our University occupies a prominent position in international and national rankings, placing us among the best Spanish and European universities. Our commitment to academic excellence and research has been validated by prestigious accreditations that attest to our high quality standards.

    Rankings and accreditations

STUDENTS 
University in figures

The University in figures

 

UC3M has 24,641 students, a figure similar to that of some of the leading European universities such as Paris II, Uppsala, Maastricht, Tilburg, Cambridge, and Oxford (universities with a student body between 14,000 and 22,000). Some data about our student body: Undergraduate students: 51.5% are men and 48.5% are women. Twenty percent of the student body has scholarships from the Ministry of Education, the Community of Madrid, or one of UC3M's own programs.

    Source: The University in figures

Rankings and accreditations

High qualification

 

In 79% of undergraduate programs, UC3M students have obtained the highest admission scores among Madrid universities.

The average grade for students admitted to all UC3M undergraduate programs was 12.285, out of a maximum of 14 points.
    UC3M fully filled its places in June. Furthermore, demand for places has also increased, with 176 applications received for every 100 places offered.

    Source: UC3M Degree Service based on data from the Community of Madrid, referring to the 2022-23 academic year.

Rankings and accreditations

Internationalization

 

UC3M has a 29.1% international student body. This proportion is especially significant in the master's and doctoral programs.

Source: International Relations Service.

  51% of UC3M graduates have participated in international mobility programs.

 Source: International Relations Service.
Professional insertion image

Professional integration of its graduates and satisfaction with UC3M

 

    94.8% of UC3M graduates have a job related to their studies.
    95.3% of graduates recommend studying at UC3M

Professional Placement Study for Graduates of the Carlos III University of Madrid. Class of 2022.

FACULTY 
Image of the Leganés Campus students

Teaching and research staff

 

UC3M has 2,268 professionals, including teaching and research staff.

14% of the teaching staff is foreign.

Source: The University in figures.

The university has implemented research support measures to achieve effective equality between men and women through the Governing Council agreement of July 12, 2007.

UC3M promotes the ongoing training of its faculty and fosters teaching innovation. In recent years, it has launched numerous MOOCs (Massive Open Online Courses) on prestigious international platforms such as edX and miriadaX. It also uses this methodology to improve the quality of in-person teaching through SPOCs (Small Private Online Courses), along with many other innovative initiatives. 

Teachers are supported by UTEID (Educational Technology and Teaching Innovation Unit) in developing their projects. 
Research orientation

Research orientation

 

UC3M is ranked among the best Spanish universities in interdisciplinary scientific research.

Source: THE Interdisciplinary Science Ranking 2025.

The university is among the most successful Spanish institutions in Horizon 2020 (H2020), the European Union's Framework Programme for Research and Innovation.

Source: Ministry of Science and Innovation 2021 .


ACADEMIC OFFER
Image Master's degree postgraduate

Bachelor's, Master's and Doctorate

 

40 undergraduate programs (16 in Social Sciences and Law, 3 in Humanities, 19 in Engineering, 1 in Science, 1 in Health Sciences, and 2 at the University Center of the Civil Guard) and 13 dual degrees.
79 official master's programs (in Law, Economics and Political Science, Business, Humanities and Communication, and Engineering and Basic Sciences), 19 dual master's programs (in Law and Engineering and Basic Sciences), and 49 university-specific degrees.
24 doctoral programs in the various research fields available at the university.
Image of English qualifications

Wide range of qualifications in English

 

    76% of the undergraduate programs offered can be taken only in English, with an English option, or with a bilingual option.
    Source: UC3M Undergraduate Service. Academic Offerings 2023-24.
    More than 40% of university master's programs are taught in English or bilingually.
    Source: UC3M Postgraduate Center. Academic Offerings 2021-2022.

Humanistic training

Humanistic training and cultural, solidarity and sports activities

 

    All UC3M undergraduate students, regardless of their degree, take humanities and professional skills courses integrated into their curriculum.
    UC3M organizes a wide range of activities:
        Develop a cultural program throughout the course.
        It encourages students and other members of the university community to participate in solidarity and social commitment programs and projects.
        It has modern sports facilities that allow the practice of a large number of specialties.



END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

Poeple I want to work with:
- Ignacio Ortuño-Ortín his work on social media in economic and social problems is closelly related to my work on gender gaps and support for redistribution.
- Luigi Minale with his work on Media bias and empirical methods and similar insterests
- Matilde P. Machado with her work broadly on gender economics and recently she will publish a paper on the role of mother in labor force participation which is within the same literature as my JMP
- Warn N.  Lekfuangfu with er work in experimental economics and labor which can help me expand my JMP and test experimentally if these empowered women modify gender norms.

END ECON DEPT