START JOB DESCRIPTION


Advertiser: Department of Economics, University College London
Field(s) of specialization: Any field
Position type(s): Assistant Professor
Location of job: Drayton House, 30 Gordon Street, London, WC1H 0AX, United Kingdom (map)
Degree required: Doctorate
Job start date: 2026-09-01
Job duration: Continuing/permanent
Letters of reference required: 3
Application deadline: 21 Nov 2025 midnight UTC (accepting applications)
Posting end date: 21 Nov 2025
Interviews: Interviews will be conducted remotely by video starting December, 2025.
Ad text:

The Department of Economics at University College London invites applications for positions of Assistant Professor (known as Lecturer in the UK) in any field of Economics.

Candidates should submit applications via the Econ Job Market website. We will be interviewing candidates online via zoom during the week of the EEA European Jobmarket (15-18 December 2025).

Closing date: Midnight pm GMT on 21 November 2025.

Queries regarding the application procedure should be addressed to Prof Stephen Hansen stephen.hansen@ucl.ac.uk .


END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

 Find out about the culture and values guiding our decisions, interactions and our work at UCL.

UCL is committed to fostering a culture of trust and mutual accountability.

Our four value clusters are set out in our Strategic Plan  2022-2027, alongside our Vision and Mission. They shape the ways in which we exercise our academic freedom and nurture our global community. They are:

    Integrity and mutual accountability
    Openness and inclusion
    Care and respect
    Rigour and innovation

We aim to create an environment that enables academic rigour and intellectual innovation to thrive and where our staff and students feel supported to learn and work as part of a dynamic and mutually respectful community.
Dr Michael Spence, UCL President & Provost, at UCL East (Sep 2023)

Dr Michael Spence, President and Provost
Living our values
Academic freedom, and freedom of speech   

As set out in its Code of Practice on Freedom of Speech (PDF), UCL is committed to upholding academic freedom of enquiry in its teaching and research and to ensuring that free and open discussion can take place in an atmosphere of tolerance.  This means maximising the autonomy of the researcher and teacher to determine, to pursue, and to promote their own intellectual agenda, and to do so free of unwarranted institutional or external  interference. 

UCL promotes academic freedom and freedom of speech in a number of ways, including through its Disagreeing Well programme.
Our people-led culture
UCL staff

UCL colleagues are supported to thrive by the UCL Ways of Working, a behavioural framework that sets expectations around how we work. 

All staff are required to complete mandatory training  related to our values, including:

    Change possible: sustainable UCL
    Disclosing and managing conflicts of interest at UCL
    Prevent at UCL  (counter-terrorism)
    Introduction to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion  

UCL is committed to fostering an inclusive, diverse and equitable environment for all, working, studying and interacting with UCL. This work is led by the Chief People Officer - a member of our President & Provost's senior team - and the Pro-Provost Equity & Inclusion. 

Equality, diversity and inclusion are promoted by a strategy and associated action plans delivered by our EDI team, overseen by the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee (chaired by the Pro-Provost Equity and Inclusion) on behalf of the University Management Committee.  Find out more about EDI at UCL.
Our student community

UCL works in close partnership with Students’ Union UCL, an independent charity that exists for the advancement of education of students at UCL for the public benefit. The Students’ Union aims to help students develop skills, belong at UCL, improve their wellbeing, enjoy university and London life, and be agents of positive change. 

The Students’ Union’s core values are Community Building, Empowering, Inclusive, Democratic, Bold, Sustainable and Fun. Find out more about Students’ Union UCL.
Our values-led approach to regulation and policy

Our policy portfolio reflects our values and is overseen by the Office of the General Counsel, which ensures compliance with UCL’s legal obligations.


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT


Welcome to the UCL Faculty of Social & Historical Sciences

The Faculty represents areas of knowledge where humanities and social science meet. Renowned for our excellence in teaching and research, we foster a vibrant culture of innovation. From tackling climate change to addressing economic inequality, our academics, alumni, and students are dedicated to exploring new ways to address pressing global issues.

We are a large and vibrant community of academics and students working in nine departments and institutes: the Departments of Anthropology, Economics, Geography, History, History of Art and Political Science, and the Institutes of the Americas, Archaeology and Advanced Studies.

UCL Social & Historical Sciences is situated across two locations in central and east London. Positioned as we are in the heart of London, we maintain strong connections with industry-specific contacts, businesses, research centres, and funding bodies. 

All of us in SHS - staff and students alike - are motivated to better understand the social, political, economic, cultural, and environmental processes that have shaped the world over time, from the deep past to the present. Individually and collectively, we demonstrate the capacity of our disciplines to change lives. This approach could not be more important given the challenges the world faces today. 

potential co-authors:
- Stephen Hansen woth his work on machileaning and AI (give structure to untructured data)
- Michela Tincani with her work on beliefs and pro-sociality behavior ight benefit from my measurements

END ECON DEPT