START JOB DESCRIPTION

    Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Economics with an interest in Economic history
    Join a collaborative and supportive network of internationally renowned academics
    Develop your academic career in one of Australia’s top economics schools

· This position is part of an exciting Australian Research Council (ARC) Discovery Project awarded to Professors Marian Vidal-Fernandez and Jordi Vidal-Robert (University of Sydney), and Professors Michele Battisti and Sayantan Ghosal (University of Glasgow).

The research project, titled The Socio-Economic Impacts of Colonisation in Australia, encompasses a broad range of topics, including health, economic growth, environmental economics, inequality, and culture. The project draws on large-scale data collection and archival records and applies a diverse set of methodologies such as text analysis and machine learning to assess the impact of colonisation.

This position is based at the School of Economics in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at the University of Sydney. The School is a key partner in the ARC Centre of Excellence for Children and Families over the Life Course (Life Course Centre), which investigates how social and economic disadvantage is transmitted across generations and communities.

The Life Course Centre brings together interdisciplinary researchers from Australian universities, government agencies, NGOs, and international affiliates.

About the Candidate

The successful applicant will contribute to co-authored and independent research projects aligned with the Discovery Project’s agenda. They will also provide guidance to junior researchers, research assistants, and students, fostering a culture of research excellence and collegiality within the School.

Essential qualifications and experience:

· PhD in Economics (awarded prior to commencement)

· Interest in working in economic history

· Experience working with large datasets

· Ability to conduct independent research and lead the development of academic papers

· Proven capacity to collaborate collegially within research teams to meet the aims and deadlines of the project

· Evidence of a developing publication record and research potential

Desirable expertise in one or more of the following areas:

· Applied microeconometrics

· Labour, Health, Environmental, Development Economics

· Indigenous/economic history

· Economic Geography/ArcGis

· Machine learning

· Structural estimation

· Text analysis

About the School of Economics

Established more than 160 years ago, the University of Sydney is Australia’s first university and holds an outstanding global reputation for academic and research excellence. Our values of inclusion, education, and leadership shape our culture and commitment to positive societal change.

We employ more than 7,600 staff who support over 60,000 students across multiple campuses. The University is undergoing a transformative phase of strategic growth and innovation.

All applications must be submitted via the economic job market link

Applications must include:

· A cover letter explaining the candidate is a good fit for the position

· Curriculum vitae (CV) including:

o PhD completion date (or expected date)

o Thesis title

o Contact details of 2–3 referees including one PhD advisor

o List of publications or working papers all with downloadable links

· Minimum two letters of recommendation

Selected candidates will be invited for an interview with the Search Committee, which will take place after the 6th of January and before the 19th of January. All interviews will be conducted remotely via Zoom.

Shortlisted candidates will be contacted in by the end of December to schedule an online Zoom interview with the lead researchers of the project.

    Job Start Date: VISA permitting start by September 2026

Pending visa, the candidate is expected to relocate by the end of August to join the research team in an indigenous cultural workshop by the end of August-Beginning of September 2026.

The University of Sydney is committed to diversity and social inclusion. We welcome applications from people of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander descent, people of culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds, as well as from women, people with disabilities, and LGBTIQ+ individuals.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Since our inception, we have believed in education for all and leadership that improves lives in all of the communities that we serve.

The University publishes an annual report to fulfil our statutory requirements and update the community on our activities and progress against our strategic objectives.
2032 Strategy

Explore our strategic vision
The values that inspire our work

Three values inform the University's ongoing commitment to excellence and transforming our culture so that everyone – across all of our campuses – can thrive. 
Trust
Actively creating an inclusive and collaborative work environment
Accountability
Owning our successes and failures, both collectively and individually
Excellence
Pursuing outstanding performance in service to our communities

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

This position is part of an exciting Australian Research Council (ARC) Discovery Project awarded to Professors Marian Vidal-Fernandez and Jordi Vidal-Robert (University of Sydney), and Professors Michele Battisti and Sayantan Ghosal (University of Glasgow).

The research project, titled The Socio-Economic Impacts of Colonisation in Australia, encompasses a broad range of topics, including health, economic growth, environmental economics, inequality, and culture. The project draws on large-scale data collection and archival records and applies a diverse set of methodologies such as text analysis and machine learning to assess the impact of colonisation.

END ECON DEPT