START JOB DESCRIPTION

As a lecturer in Applied Economics, you take a classical role as teacher and course coordinator. Are you excited to inspire our Bachelor’s and Master’s students? Read on and apply!
Your job

In this role, you are part of the Applied Economics Section of the Utrecht University School of Economics. We offer courses within the broad Bachelor’s programme Economics & Business Economics, a double Bachelor’s programme in Economics and Mathematics, and several specialised Master’s programmes. Examples of courses you can be involved in are Economics of the Public Sector, Welfare Economics, Applied Economics, and Empirical Economics. Besides that, you supervise Bachelor’s and Master’s theses in these fields.

10% of your working hours is intended for personal development and/or improvement of your own teaching & research skills.
Your qualities

You bring the following qualifications:

    a PhD degree in Economics, Econometrics or a related discipline (candidates who have submitted their manuscript and are awaiting their defence date are invited to apply);
    relevant knowledge of teaching in Public Economics, Applied Data Science, Econometrics or statistical methods in economics;
    teaching experience in an international academic environment with the proven ability to inspire students from undergraduate to graduate levels, apparent from positive assessments by students and peers;
    strong communication and coordination skills;
    a strong command of spoken and written English. While all teaching presently is in English, being able to also teach in Dutch is considered an advantage.

Our offer

    A fixed-term appointment as Lecturer for up to four years;
    a working week of 32-40 hours and a gross monthly salary between €4,728 and €6,433 (salary scale 11 under the Collective Labour Agreement for Dutch Universities (CAO NU));
    8% holiday bonus and 8.3% end-of-yea



END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

Mission and vision

In our mission and vision, we are guided by the core values of ambition, engagement, inspiration and independence.
Our mission: what do we want to contribute to the world?

We are working towards a better world. We do this by researching complex issues beyond the borders of disciplines. We put thinkers in contact with doers, so new insights can be applied. We give students the space to develop themselves. In so doing, we make substantial contributions to society, both now and in the future.
Our ambition: how do we fulfil our mission?

When it comes to solving the problems of the world, we aim high. We want to give direction to necessary transformations. We see the university as a catalyst for change. That is the contribution we want to make to society.
Our vision: what do we see happening in the world?

We live in a world that is rapidly changing. Global issues are complex: they are not limited to generations or continents and cannot be solved from one single perspective.

Themes such as climate change, distribution of wealth and healthy living require an interdisciplinary approach. Scientific insights are needed to solve these issues.

    Discussing a terror attack in class

    ‘Children and teachers want to be able to distinguish facts from opinions, and are looking for knowledge that helps them put incidents and attacks in a broader perspective.’ Terrorism expert Beatrice de Graaf recognised that schools need up-to-date information  on conflicts, security and terrorism.
    Young and happy?

    ‘Our research touches not only on well-being, substance use and social media, but also addresses school-related pressure, condom use, soft drink consumption and relationships with parents and friends. It also allows us to compare young people in the Netherlands with their peers from nearly every other country in Europe.’

    'Measuring the quality of our living environment is key to understanding why we stay healthy'

    Air pollution can make people sick. In order to find out how this works exactly, environmental epidemiologist Roel Vermeulen of Utrecht University and University Medical Center Utrecht measures air pollution with his research team.
    'The water resources in the Himalayas are changing, and we need to understand how'

    How do you minimise the destructive effects of global warming? In order to answer this question and make political decisions, insights into the impact of rising temperatures are needed.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

A better future for everyone. This ambition motivates our scientists in executing their leading research and inspiring teaching. At Utrecht University, the various disciplines collaborate intensively towards major strategic themes. Our focus is on Dynamics of Youth, Institutions for Open Societies, Life Sciences and Pathways to Sustainability. Sharing science, shaping tomorrow.

The Faculty of Law, Economics and Governance is a faculty at the heart of society, with a strong focus on social issues. Our subjects of Law, Economics and Governance give us a strong mix of academic disciplines that complement and enhance each other. This is a unique combination and a mark of our faculty's strength.

The Utrecht University School of Economics (U.S.E) is part of the Faculty of Law, Economics and Governance at Utrecht University. U.S.E. aims to contribute to an economy where people flourish by taking a broad view on welfare and its causes. We aspire to be an internationally renowned school of economics with scientifically rigorous and socially relevant research and education. We enrich economics with other disciplines to better solve problems and identify opportunities, from a business as well as government perspective.

END ECON DEPT