START JOB DESCRIPTION

The Department of Economics at Vassar College invites applications for one full-time Assistant Professor committed to teaching and research in development economics, to begin August 2026.

Vassar College is dedicated to providing equal employment opportunities to all applicants and employees and welcomes applications from individuals of all backgrounds. Decisions concerning employment are made on the basis of an individual’s qualifications to contribute to meeting Vassar College’s educational objectives and its institutional needs, which includes promoting a respect for difference and creating a learning environment where students from all backgrounds can thrive. Candidates who can contribute to these goals through their teaching, research, advising, and other activities are encouraged to identify their strengths and experiences in this area. If you need to request an accommodation to fully participate in the search process, please contact careers@vassar.edu

Vassar is a highly selective, coeducational liberal arts college of about 2400 undergraduate students, located in the Hudson Valley, seventy-five miles north of New York City. Vassar stands upon the homelands of the Munsee Lenape. The College is located in Poughkeepsie, home to a culturally diverse community, and benefits from convenient commuter rail access to New York City. Vassar faculty are committed teachers/scholars who bring research and creative discovery to life for students in classrooms, labs, and studios and in individually-mentored projects. They teach broadly in the curricula of their departments, advise students, and serve on college-wide and departmental committees. The College maintains a generous leave policy, provides strong support for research, and encourages multidisciplinary approaches to teaching.

A commitment to teaching undergraduate students is essential. A PhD in Economics or a related field is required and must be in hand by time of appointment. Requirements include an active research agenda and the ability to teach development economics at all levels of the undergraduate curriculum as well as the ability to teach in the core curriculum in economics.

Applications should be submitted at https://www.econjobmarket.org/. They must include a cover letter, curriculum vitae, teaching statement, research statement, a sample of scholarship, graduate school transcript (unofficial copy is acceptable at the time of application), three letters of reference, and a community impact statement, whose purpose is explained here https://www.google.com/url?q=https://offices.vassar.edu/dean-of-the-faculty/positions/community-impact-statement/ , and evidence of teaching effectiveness (if available).

Address any questions to Sarah Pearlman via email, sapearlman@vassar.edu. Review of applicant materials will begin on November 03, 2025 and will continue until the position has been filled. There is no guarantee that applications received after November 03, 2025 will be reviewed.

Pay Transparency Disclosure: The annual base starting salary range for this position is $114,000 to $124,000 (USD). This range includes new faculty appointments beginning the first year of a standard tenure clock as well as Assistant Professors with previous tenure-line experience who will be on an accelerated tenure clock. When extending an offer of employment, Vassar College considers factors such as (but not limited to) candidate’s education/training, work experience, internal peer equity, as well as market and organizational considerations. This salary range represents the College’s good faith and reasonable estimate at the time of posting. The starting salary for an Assistant Professor in this position with a PhD beginning the first year of a standard tenure clock in Fall 2026 is $118,000.

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION



Vassar—located in New York’s scenic Hudson Valley—is an independent, coeducational, residential liberal arts college, which fosters intellectual openness and lively exploration through its widely varied course offerings. Founded in 1861 to offer women a fully equivalent education to that of the best men’s colleges of the period, Vassar became the first women’s college in the nation to expand its mission to coeducation by opening its doors to men in 1969. Today’s students, who meet each other as equals, are encouraged to develop diverse perspectives through engaging in lively dialogues with faculty and fellow students, which enables them to achieve the insight and confidence needed to function most creatively in today’s complex world. Consistently ranked among the top liberal arts colleges in the country, Vassar continues to be renowned for pioneering achievements in education, and for the beauty of its campus in Poughkeepsie, New York.
Land Acknowledgment

We acknowledge that Vassar stands upon the homelands of the Munsee Lenape, Indigenous peoples who have an enduring connection to this place despite being forcibly displaced by European colonization. Munsee Lenape peoples continue today as the Stockbridge-Munsee Community in Wisconsin, the Delaware Tribe and the Delaware Nation in Oklahoma, and the Munsee Delaware Nation in Ontario. Read the full statement.
President
Photo portrait of Vassar president Elizabeth Bradley standing outside.

Elizabeth H. Bradley, PhD, was inaugurated as Vassar’s 11th president on September 24, 2017. President Bradley is a noted public health expert who created the first Masters of Health Administration on the African continent with the Clinton Health Access Initiative and pioneered a model of innovation scale-up with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. She continues to be a strong advocate for education and public health, regularly publishing opinion pieces in Forbes, Bloomberg News, and other national outlets as well as peer-reviewed research, including more than 325 peer-reviewed papers. She has co-authored three books, including The American Healthcare Paradox: Why Spending More Is Getting Us Less. She also served on the New York governor’s COVID-19 advisory panel, New York Forward and is a member of the National Academy of Medicine and Council of Foreign Relations. Learn more about President Bradley.
Mission

The mission of Vassar College is to make accessible “the means of a thorough, well-proportioned and liberal education”* that inspires each individual to lead a purposeful life. The College makes possible an education that promotes analytical, informed, and independent thinking and sound judgment; encourages articulate expression; and nurtures intellectual curiosity, creativity, respectful debate and engaged citizenship. Vassar supports a high standard of engagement in teaching and learning, scholarship and artistic endeavor; a broad and deep curriculum; and a residential campus that fosters a learning community.

Founded in 1861 to provide women an education equal to that once available only to men, Vassar is now open to all and strives to pursue diversity, inclusion, and equity as essential components of a rich intellectual and cultural environment in which all members, including those from underrepresented and marginalized groups, are valued and empowered to thrive. *From the College’s First Annual Catalogue


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

The Department of Economics at Vassar aims to deepen students’ understanding of the economic forces that shape our global society and profoundly influence our daily lives.

Whatever their intended majors, students will find exposure to the topics and methods of economics to be valuable. It will sharpen their reasoning skills, broaden their acquaintance with important economic issues, deepen their understanding of government policies and business behavior, and equip them for positions of leadership in today’s world. A background in economics helps open doors to careers in a variety of fields including finance, law, politics, international affairs, and the media. 

Economics is the study of how societies deal with scarcity. Limited natural resources means decisions must be made about how to use those resources. Microeconomics examines decisions made by individual households and firms while macroeconomics studies issues related to trying to coordinate all of the individual activities.

Economics touches people everywhere and in a variety of ways, such as:

    The price of gasoline is determined by the global demand and supply of oil.
    Interest rates on student loans, car loans, credit cards, etc., are affected by Federal Reserve policies.
    The ease of getting a job or starting a business is influenced by how well the economy is doing.
    Taxes reduce our ability to buy goods and services but increase the government’s ability to build and maintain roads and bridges, to provide police and fire department protection, to support education, and to protect endangered species and habitats.

The Department of Economics offers introductory courses for students interested in learning the basics of economics and a wide variety of intermediate and advanced courses for students interested in deepening their understanding of the discipline.

We have one of the largest departments on campus, with an energetic Majors Committee and faculty who are actively engaged with students and with their research

potential co-authors:
- Sarah Pearlman with er work of gender. in latin america is a great fit for my job market paper
- Benjamin Ho with his work in identity 

END ECON DEPT