START JOB DESCRIPTION

Faculty of Political Science and Economics, Waseda University
Faculty Recruitment in Empirical Microeconomics
The Faculty of Political Science and Economics at Waseda University invites applications for a tenure-track or
tenured position in Empirical Microeconomics to begin in the spring or fall of 2026 (or a mutually agreed later date).
Waseda University, founded in 1882, is a leading private research university located in central Tokyo. As part of its
globalization efforts, the Faculty of Political Science and Economics has been offering degree programs in English
for both undergraduate and graduate students since 2010, in addition to long-standing degree programs in Japanese.
The programs provide diverse and dynamic academic opportunities for talented students from all around the world.
1) Affiliation
Faculty of Political Science and Economics (FPSE), Waseda University
2) Field
Empirical Microeconomics
3) Qualifications
• Substantial research achievements in empirical research in applied microeconomics (any fields)
• Ability to teach courses in Japanese and English
• Ph.D. in Economics or a relevant field by the time of appointment
• Teaching experience is desirable
4) Teaching Responsibilities
Courses related to microeconomics for both the School of Political Science and Economics (Undergraduate
Program) and the Graduate School of Economics (Master’s and Doctoral Programs), as well as other related
courses in the Faculty of Political Science and Economics. The ability to teach econometrics at both
undergraduate and graduate levels is desirable.
5) Number of positions available
1
6) Position rank and title
Professor (tenured), Associate Professor (tenured), Associate Professor (tenure-track), or Assistant Professor
(tenure-track)
The rank will be determined by such factors as the applicant’s academic and research record, as well as the
committee’s evaluation during the screening process. It will be made known to the applicant at the final interview
with the FPSE’s senior dean and other executive committee members.
Overview of Tenure-Track Positions at the FPSE:
Tenure-track positions at FPSE shall be appointed either as Assistant Professor (tenure-track) or Associate
Professor (tenure-track), for three years in the first term, followed by two years of reappointment and an
additional two years of reappointment, for a total of up to seven years.
As a general rule, the interim review shall be carried out in the sixth semester following the appointment and
completed by the end of the first three-year term on the tenure track. If a tenure-track faculty member passes the
interim review, the first reappointment of two years shall be confirmed.
By default, the final review shall be carried out in the tenth semester and completed by the end of the fifth yearon the tenure track. If the tenure-track faculty member passes the final review, the faculty member will become
a tenured faculty member from the following semester. The second reappointment of two years may be granted
to a tenure-track faculty member who fails the final review.
The tenure-track faculty member may request an interim review or a final review at any time in or after the
fourth semester following appointment.
If maternity and/or parental leave is taken before the end of the interim or final review, the period of the tenure-
track faculty member may be extended by a period equivalent to the maternity and/or parental leave, subject to
the approval of the University, provided that the total period of continuous service does not exceed 10 years.
Note: If you have had an employment contract with Waseda University (regardless of job title) since April 1,
2013, and there is no period of at least six months without an employment contract with Waseda University at
the scheduled start of this position, in principle, there is a limit to the duration of the employment contract.
Therefore, the above may not be applied.
7) Working conditions
• Salary, allowances, and commuting expenses are commensurate with qualifications and are based on Waseda
University pay scales.
• The workplace will, in principle, be on the Waseda University campus.
• Scheduled working days and working hours are based on university regulations. Considering the nature of
research work, working hours are at the discretion of each faculty member.
• Holidays are Saturdays, Sundays, New Year’s holidays, legally recognized public holidays, and
compensatory holidays appointed by the University for holding classes on public holidays and the
anniversary of the University’s founding. Holidays prescribed as working days by the University in advance
will be excluded. There may be cases where classes and other types of FPSE work will be scheduled on
holidays. Employees may take compensatory holidays for those occasions. For the academic calendar of the
university, please see:
https://www.waseda.jp/top/en/about/work/organizations/academic-affairs-division/academic-calendar
• Leave is determined by the Labor Standards Act and other related laws, including days that are designated
by the University as leave days.
• Pension, health insurance, labor insurance, and employment insurance are provided based on university
regulations.
• Research funding includes an individual research allowance of 210,000 yen per year, an academic conference
traveling subsidy of 90,000 yen per year, and an international academic conference traveling subsidy of
110,000 yen per year. Other competitive research funds are available at Waseda University.
• Retirement benefits will be paid to tenured Professors and tenured Associate Professors in accordance with
university regulations. No retirement benefits will be provided to Associate Professors (tenure-track) and
Assistant Professors (tenure-track). However, if they continue to serve as tenured faculty members after the
term as tenure-track faculty members, retirement benefits will be provided in accordance with university
regulations. The period of service for calculating the retirement benefits of a tenured faculty member is
counted from the date of appointment as Assistant Professor (tenure-track) or Associate Professor (tenure-
track) at Waseda University.
8) Scheduled start of employment
April 1, 2026, or September 1, 2026 (or a mutually agreed later date)
9) Application procedure
• All applications must be submitted via the following website:https://www.wasedapse.jp/en/fpse2/eng_input.php
• On the web application form, choose “Empirical Microeconomics” in the “Application Category.”
• Please prepare PDF copies of the following documents and upload each document to the relevant sections
of “Application Documents.”
• Please be sure to read the “Notes for using the Web Application Form” from the link below before filling in
the Web Application Form.
https://www.waseda.jp/fpse/pse/assets/uploads/2020/01/20200128_Notes-for-using-the-Web-Application-
Form.pdf
• Templates for the cover letter and curriculum vitae are available from the following website:
https://www.waseda.jp/fpse/pse/news-en/2025/08/05/24591/
I. Cover letter with your contact information
Download the prescribed form from the above website. Fill out the form and upload it to the section “(1)
Application Form/Cover Letter.”
II. Curriculum vitae with a list of academic/research accomplishments
Upload it to the section “(2) Curriculum vitae with a list of academic/research accomplishments.” Use
either a format of your choice or our formats found on the website. Please put both curriculum vitae and
academic/research accomplishments into a single PDF file when you use our formats.
III. Research statement
No more than 2,000 words (in English). Describe your past research and future research plans, referring
to the primary academic works that you will submit along with your application documents. Any format
is acceptable.
Upload it to the section “(3) Additional application material 1.”
IV. Teaching statement
Please compile the following items (A and B) in a single PDF file and upload it to the section “(3)
Additional application material 2.” Any format is acceptable.
(4-A) Your teaching philosophy and plans for courses in Microeconomics at the undergraduate level, either
in English (approximately 500 words) or in Japanese (1,000 characters).
(4-B) Your course evaluations and any other evidence of your teaching ability (if applicable)
V. Primary academic works (three or fewer)
Please compile your primary works (three or fewer) into a single PDF file and upload the file to the section
“(3) Additional application material 3.”
VI. [Degree holder] A copy of the diploma of your Ph.D. degree or a certificate of degree conferral: Upload it
to the section “(3) Additional application material 4.”
[Degree candidate] A document/letter that confirms the conferral of your doctoral degree is expected.
Upload it to the section “(3) Additional application material 4.”When uploading each file to the relevant sections, please title each file as follows. Please insert your last name
where it says “YOURLASTNAME” in the below file names (e.g. 01_WASEDA.pdf).
Your document Name of your document Upload Category
1) Cover letter (The prescribed
form)
01_YOURLASTNAME.pdf (1) Application form/Cover letter
2) CV 02_cv_YOURLASTNAME.pdf (2) Curriculum Vitae with a list of
academic/professional accomplishments
3) Research Statement Research_YOURLASTNAME.pdf (3) Additional application material 1
4) Teaching Statement Teaching_YOURLASTNAME.pdf (3) Additional application material 2
5) Three major works Work_YOURLASTNAME.pdf (3) Additional application material 3
6) Document regarding your
doctoral degree
Degree_YOURLASTNAME.pdf (3) Additional application material 4
When your application has been submitted successfully, you will receive an automatic reply titled “Notification
of completion of registration (Waseda University)” to the email address you gave on the Web Application Form.
Please be sure to check that all the information you submitted and the documents you uploaded are shown in the
email.
10) Letters of Recommendation
Applicants are requested to prepare letters of recommendation according to the following instructions, depending on
whether they currently hold tenure.
– Applicants without tenure: Please follow Pattern 1. Also, please write "pattern1" in Reference 5 >> Name.
– Applicants with tenure: Please follow either Pattern 2.Also, please write "pattern2" in Reference 5 >> Name.
(1). Pattern 1: Applicant requests letters of recommendation
Applicants must list the names, affiliations, titles, and contact information (email addresses) of two referees
in the “References” section of the application form who can be recommenders. Applicants are required to
ask these referees to write and submit letters of recommendation. The recommender, not the applicant, must
submit the letter by the application deadline.
• Requirements:
Each letter of recommendation must meet the following conditions:
• Language: Japanese or English
• Addressee: Senior Dean, the Faculty of Political Science and Economics, Waseda University
• Format: Must include the referee’s signature at the end
• Submission method: The referee must submit the letter by one of the following methods:
• Submission methods:
• Email (the message must arrive on or before the application deadline):
The referee must send a PDF file (with the signature) from their official institutional email address
to the following address.
Email: pse-hr-empmic2025@list.waseda.jp
Subject:• Post (the envelope must be postmarked on or before the deadline):
The referee must send the letter to the address below, with the envelope clearly marked in red with:”
Letter of Recommendation for Empirical Microeconomics”
Address:
Senior Dean, the Faculty of Political Science and Economics
Waseda University
1-6-1 Nishi Waseda
Shinjuku, Tokyo 169-8050 Japan
(2). Pattern 2: University contacts referees directly
Applicants must list the names, affiliations, titles, and contact information (email addresses) of two
references in the “References” section of the application form who can be contacted regarding the applicant.
If the candidate makes it to the second stage, we will ask them to provide us with a letter of recommendation.
11) Deadline
The application deadline is 1 p.m. on October 15, 2025 (JST).
12) Recruitment process
There will be three stages to the recruitment process: 1) Shortlisting based on document screening. 2) An
interview with members of the search committee, including a mock lesson and a research presentation. 3) An
interview with the FPSE’s senior dean and the executive committee members.
The result of the recruitment process will be made known to the candidate. The schedule of the second stage,
including travel arrangements, will be made known to candidates who pass the first stage.
13) Inquiries
Inquiries should only be made by email to pse-hr-empmic2025@list.waseda.jp
Waseda University is committed to enhancing diversity and inclusion. In all matters related to faculty recruitment
and promotion, the University prohibits any form of discrimination on the basis of sex, disability, sexual orientation
and gender identity, nationality, ethnicity, creed, and age.
Waseda University also aims to create an environment in which all members of the University are respected for their
dignity and diverse values and lifestyles, and can fully develop their individuality and abilities, by providing various
support services such as those for female researchers, childcare, nursing care, etc.
You can find more information about the support services here:
https://www.waseda.jp/inst/diversity/en/support/

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

On Waseda University’s 30th anniversary in October 1913, President Shigenobu Okuma proclaimed its newly adopted Mission Statement.

As the fundamental statement of its educational policy, the mission was drafted by Sanae Takata, Shoyo Tsubouchi, Kenkichi Ichijima, Kazutami Ukita, Yasukuni Matsudaira and their colleagues, and approved by Okuma before its presentation at the anniversary celebration.

In 1937 a monument inscribed with the mission statement, in calligraphy by Hisoka Maejima, was installed near the main gate.

    Waseda University holds as its founding principles the preservation of the independence of scholarship, the promotion of the practical application of scholarship, and the fostering of good citizens.

    Holding the independence of scholarship as a central principle, Waseda University pledges to contribute to the scholarship of the world by regarding freedom of research as essential and devoting itself constantly to original research.

    Holding the practical application of scholarship as a central principle, Waseda University pledges to contribute to the progress of the times by establishing a path for the practical use of scholarship as well as pursuing theoretical research for its own sake.

    Holding the fostering of good citizens as a central principle, Waseda University pledges to cultivate people of character who can respect individuality, develop themselves and their families, benefit the nation and society, and be active in the world at large.

Independence of Scholarship

Independence of Scholarship is tightly connected with the outsider’s spirit and a critical mind. Waseda University has promoted scientific education and research without bending to authority or temporal fashion, in order to produce independent modern citizens.
Practical Application of Scholarship

In the historical context, academic enterprises had to be useful for construction of the modern nation-state of Japan which was underway at that time. So the founding principle of Practical Application of Scholarship focuses not on shallow pragmatism but the spirit of progressivism.
Fostering of Good Citizens

The University was established with a focus on educating the common people, and Fostering of Good Citizens is one of the three founding principles. In today’s context of globalization, it also means Good Global Citizenship. The founding principles and the Waseda Spirit which has grown from them are our legacy and the culture which we embrace.

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

Our Faculty is an organization that was instated in September 2004 with the aim of integrating the operation of closely related undergraduate school, graduate schools, and institutes, and thus ensuring that they maintain a strong relationship. The Faculty of Political Science and Economics consists of the School of Political Science and Economics, the Graduate School of Political Science, the Graduate School of Economics, the Graduate School of Public Management, and the Waseda Institute of Political Economy. Based on this organizational foundation, we are actively encouraging interaction between the undergraduate school and graduate schools, cooperation in both education and research fields among the three graduate schools, and integration of the results achieved by the research institutes back into the classroom. For example, academic staff members who have mastered the business routine of the Graduate School of Public Management, which aims to foster advanced professionals, take charge of the “practical activities” of the undergraduate school, and hold classes which include themes that include policy recommendations and actual problems modern society faces, while also improving basic academic skills. (All full-time faculty members who belong to the traditional graduate schools, the Graduate School of Political Science and the Graduate School of Economics, are members of the undergraduate school or the liberal arts and foreign languages department.)

People to work with:
- Patric DEJARNETTE and Elizaveta Kugaevskaia for their expertise in behavioral economics I can work on directly exploring the mechanisms cultural value -> attitudes -> behavior
- Shahida PERVIN: for her expertise in labor economics we could explore the cultural aspect of labor decisions.

END ECON DEPT