START JOB DESCRIPTION

to have their claim to Indigenous identity (First Nations, Métis, and Inuit) affirmed
through a relational accountability process, led by the Office of Indigenous Initiatives
(OII), that is consistent with Indigenous ways of knowing, being, and doing. Please
contact the OII directly for details on the affirmation
processes: https://indigenous.uwo.ca/ . The policy can be viewed at:
POLICY 1.58 - Affirming Declarations of Indigenous Citizenship or Membership at
Western University.
Western Values Diversity
Positions are subject to budget approval. Applicants should have fluent written and oral
communication skills in English. The University invites applications from all qualified
individuals. Western is committed to employment equity and diversity in the workplace
and welcomes applications from women, members of racialized groups, Indigenous
peoples, persons with disabilities, persons of any sexual orientation, and persons of any
gender identity or gender expression.
About Western
Western University delivers an academic experience second to none. Western challenges
the best and brightest faculty, staff, and students to commit to the highest global
standards. Our research excellence expands knowledge and drives discovery with real-
world application. Western attracts individuals with a broad worldview, seeking to study,
influence, and lead in the international community. Since 1878, The Western Experience
has combined academic excellence with life-long opportunities for intellectual, social, and
cultural growth in order to better serve our communities. General information about
Western can be found at https://www.uwo.ca.
About Us
Western’s Department of Economics has a long-standing reputation as a leading
research department in Canada. Information about the Department of Economics can be
found at https://economics.uwo.ca/.
Information About London, Ontario
https://london.ca/immigration/life-london/about-london-ontario
Immigration
In accordance with Canadian immigration requirements, priority will be given to Canadian
citizens and permanent residents.
Accessibility
Accommodations are available for applicants with disabilities throughout the recruitment
process. If you require accommodations for interviews or other meetings, please contact
economics@uwo.ca or 519-661-3500.
Posted on Faculty Relations website on September 25, 2025.
Posting number: SS-ECON_202

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

This is a document about change.

Universities are special communities in which the curiosity of students and teachers motivates them to pursue knowledge for its own sake and for what it may yield. Knowledge - whether newly discovered or interpreted by senior researchers, or newly acquired by students preparing for a career - is a powerful agent of change in the lives of individual scholars and, through them, in society generally. The idea of the university has survived over nine centuries, not because it has existed in static isolation, but because it has continuously transformed itself to serve citizens and society well and effectively.

The world we are entering will be characterized by a knowledge-based society, marked by rapid changes in technology and an increased level of global competition. Canada must reach toward a position of leadership in that world. Learning - including both education and research - is the key to our future and the means by which Ontario and Canada will establish their place in the next century.

At the heart of social and economic health in the 21st century will be a recognition that our basic resources are not land, nor natural resources, nor unskilled labour, but rather are the knowledge and creativity of educated individuals. Whether we think of our city, our province, or our country, knowledge will be crucial to meeting the economic, social, and cultural challenges which our society will be facing over the coming decades. As institutions, universities must evolve to foster and sustain the vigorous pursuit of knowledge through teaching and research. A learning culture must therefore be both mindful of tradition and values and also responsive to new challenges and opportunities. In this way, the university best contributes to the larger society of which it is an integral part.

Change, then, is the very essence of the university's work, and any true university is itself in perpetual transition. The University of Western Ontario, since its founding in 1878, has evolved from its roots as an intellectual centre for one of Canada's most rapidly developing regions to become also an institution of national and international stature. The shape of its basic academic disciplines has evolved, as has that of its professional Faculties and Schools. Although universities are repositories of past learning, they must also be dedicated to shaping the future. This continuity, of a past that we honour and a future to which we commit, is distilled in our Mission:

    The University of Western Ontario is dedicated to the advancement of learning through teaching and research and to the discovery and application of knowledge. The University seeks to provide an environment of free and creative inquiry within which critical thinking, humane values, and practical skills are cultivated and sustained. By pursuing these objectives, the University endeavours to serve the interests of society. 

The challenge to change which Western faces today is therefore not new or at all alien to its tradition. The challenge does, however, seem especially urgent now, in the face of shrinking public resources and basic questioning of the educational enterprise. Concerns have arisen within the University about maintaining, in an environment of severe resource constraints, the quality of research, teaching, and learning that we expect of ourselves.

Our response to this difficult environment should be a renewed commitment to academic quality. We intend that Western will become - and be seen to be - a markedly more vital and energetic centre of learning, creative questioning and problem-solving, research and teaching. Our commitment is to leadership in learning: we seek faculty who will be acknowledged leaders in their scholarly disciplines and who will ensure a quality of undergraduate and graduate education which will allow Western's graduates in their turn to assume leadership positions in public affairs, the scholarly world, the business world, the performing and fine arts, the professions, community organizations, and the many other areas of endeavour to which they aspire. Our basic strategic objective is expressed in our Vision:

    By supporting academic distinction, Western will achieve a place in the first rank of major Canadian universities and, in selected areas, be the leader. 

The Task Force identifies undergraduate and graduate education and research (broadly interpreted to include creative activity) as the areas in which a university can most profoundly interact with society. Furthermore, we re-affirm that the essential interaction of undergraduate education and research is to be cultivated. Western can make the most dramatic advances toward realizing its Vision by enriching the experience of its newest scholars, by extending the impact of the work of its established scholars, and - perhaps most important - by fresh and dynamic syntheses of those endeavours. 

END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

Western Economics faculty members are involved in innovative and transformational economic research. Our breadth of research areas covers microeconomics, macroeconomics, econometrics, labour economics, public finance, political economy, development economics, industrial organization, education, family economics, economics of China, international trade, financial economics and econometrics, crime and public economics.  Our research is published widely as can be seen in the list of Faculty Publications and has received wide acclaim and numerous Awards.  Researchers have active agendas with their work being supported by External Funding, being presented at national and international conferences and being translated in knowledge that can be mobilized for private firms and public policy makers. Through their Working Paper Series, Institutes and Centres support and help disseminate research under various themes. We also have a lively Workshop Program through which faculty and visitors present their research in a number of specialized seminar series.  Western Economics also hosts a variety of Conferences throughout the year.
Accessibility

Please contact economics@uwo.ca if you require information in plain text format, or any other accommodation to make physical space accessible to you.

END ECON DEPT