START JOB DESCRIPTION

The Williams College Economics Department invites applications for two tenure-track positions in applied microeconomics, to begin July 1, 2026. We are particularly seeking candidates whose work relates to applied microeconomic theory, development economics, economics of education, gender economics, health economics, household behavior and family economics, industrial organization, labor economics, public economics, public policy, political economy, or urban economics. We welcome applications from candidates of all backgrounds and strongly encourage individuals whose experiences and perspectives will enhance our commitment to academic excellence and innovation to apply. Candidates should have a Ph.D., or all requirements for the Ph.D. degree, completed by September 2026.

We are a department of active scholars (https://econ.williams.edu/) and currently have 25 tenured or tenure-track faculty members. The teaching load is two courses per semester, frequently with a double-prep in one of the terms. We offer extensive support and resources to help one succeed in teaching and research, including, among other things: a generous leave policy and research funding; programs for professional development, mentoring, and networking; and an evidence-based center to support teaching. Williams College welcomes candidates who plan to seek external research funding as part of their scholarly work. The College is prepared to support faculty applications to a range of federal and private funding sources. For further details on teaching and research at Williams, see: https://econ.williams.edu/jobs/working-in-the-williams-econ-dept/.

The deadline for application and supporting materials is November 15, 2025. All materials should be submitted through Interfolio at https://apply.interfolio.com/171825. Email, fax, or paper applications cannot be accepted. All applicants should submit a cover letter, their curriculum vitae, a recent research paper, and evidence of successful teaching. The cover letter should speak to the applicant’s ability to work effectively with a student population that is broadly diverse with regard to, among other things, gender, race, ethnicity, nationality, sexual orientation, and/or religion. Applicants should ensure that three letters of reference are submitted on their behalf. We plan to conduct first-round interviews on Zoom in December and to schedule campus visits for finalists in January. Questions regarding the search may be directed to Professor Steven Nafziger, Chair, Department of Economics, snafzige@williams.edu.

All offers of employment are contingent upon completion of a background check. Further information is available at: http://dean-faculty.williams.edu/prospective-faculty/background-check-policy/.

Williams College is a liberal arts institution located in the Berkshire Hills of western Massachusetts. The college has built its reputation on outstanding teaching and scholarship and on the academic excellence of its approximately 2,000 students. Please visit the Williams website (http://williams.edu).

Williams promotes equal opportunity and makes all employment decisions on a non-discriminatory basis. Williams College is committed to building a diverse and inclusive community where individuals of all identities and backgrounds can live, learn and thrive.

To apply, visit https://apply.interfolio.com/171825. (See posting for details.) 

END JOB DESCRIPTION

START INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

At Williams, we believe that the most versatile, practical and enduring education we can offer students is a liberal arts education. We seek to inspire creativity and imagination, openness and empathy, intellectual curiosity and academic vigor, and self-reflection and awareness through the powerful combination of students learning and living together.

Here, students become partners in the process of discovery—contributing to knowledge in an intimate, supportive environment, developing close intellectual and personal relationships with professors, peers and mentors, and learning from and with each other through free inquiry and the open exchange of ideas.

We place great emphasis on the learning that takes place outside the classroom, as well, and encourage wide participation in and student authorship of our co-curriculum.

In all we do, we aim to be an inclusive learning community in which all can thrive: students, faculty and staff.

We teach and learn this way because we believe that such holistic immersion prepares students to make deep connections between ideas and people. By cultivating within students both the wisdom and skills they will need to become responsible contributors to their communities, we aim to prepare our alumni to create opportunities for others through service and leadership in society at large and to lead fuller, more impactful lives.

Founded in 1793, Williams College is the second-oldest institution of higher education in Massachusetts. The campus is home to approximately 2,100 students who develop close intellectual and personal relationships, learning from and alongside some of the world’s leading scholars. Williams’ faculty is devoted to teaching, mentoring, and scholarly research. Williams also offers two graduate programs: a two-year master’s degree in the history of art in partnership with the Clark Art Institute, and a yearlong master’s program designed for economists from low- and middle-income countries. Upon graduation, our students join an extraordinarily devoted body of alumni—the oldest society of alumni in the country—whose financial generosity makes every aspect of a Williams education possible.

Our system of shared governance, attentive to the interests of all constituent groups, is central to the enduring excellence of the college and the vitality of our community. Faculty carry primary responsibility for the curriculum and related matters; staff have a voice through college committees and advisory boards; and students shape many aspects of campus life through three interconnected groups known as the Three Pillars. The President and Senior Staff manage the college's strategic and day-to-day affairs, while the Board of Trustees is the ultimate corporate and fiduciary authority responsible for the college's policies and programs.


END INSTITUTIONAL DESCRIPTION

START ECON DEPT

Economics is the most popular major at Williams. With more than 25 active faculty and a focus on both teaching and research, we are considered a leader among U.S. college economics departments. We offer a diverse and innovative curriculum, and we contribute to Williams’ interdisciplinary Political Economy program. We also operate the Center for Development Economics, which offers a one-year master’s degree in policy economics for early-career public servants from developing and transitional countries. Read more about us here.

Wondering what you can do with an Economics major? We asked nine recent Williams alumni to share how they use economics in their current jobs. Watch our video “Where will Economics take you?” to see the varied paths they have taken! For another look at how a background in economics can be a tool for solving human problems, this brief educational video on Economics careers, developed by The American Economic Association, may be relevant and useful.

As of October 2024, the IDEAS ranking of the research productivity of all US economics departments ranked the Williams College 48th overall, well above all other liberal arts college economics departments, and above many well-regarded research universities. A 2016 study found that the Williams College economics department ranked first in terms of citations to its research among economics departments at all liberal arts colleges, with more than twice as many citations as the second-ranked department. Williams was also at or near the top of rankings of research productivity of liberal arts college economics departments in studies published in 2008, and 1997. We have an active seminar series where department members and economists from other institutions present their research. A list of recent publications (since 2021) can be found here. The department maintains a working paper series.

The department is part of Northeast Universities Development Consortium (NEUDC), a major forum for the field of development economics, and has occasionally hosted the annual NEUDC conference.

END ECON DEPT